docs/sources/datasources/loki/_index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../data-sources/loki/
  - ../features/datasources/loki/
description: Guide for using Loki in Grafana
keywords:
  - grafana
  - loki
  - logging
  - guide
menuTitle: Loki
title: Loki data source
weight: 800
---

# Loki data source

Grafana ships with built-in support for [Loki](/docs/loki/latest/), an open-source log aggregation system by Grafana Labs.
This topic explains configuring and querying specific to the Loki data source.

For instructions on how to add a data source to Grafana, refer to the [administration documentation]({{< relref "../../administration/data-source-management/" >}}).
Only users with the organization administrator role can add data sources.
Administrators can also [configure the data source via YAML]({{< relref "#provision-the-data-source" >}}) with Grafana's provisioning system.

Once you've added the Loki data source, you can [configure it]({{< relref "#configure-the-data-source" >}}) so that your Grafana instance's users can create queries in its [query editor]({{< relref "./query-editor/" >}}) when they [build dashboards]({{< relref "../../dashboards/build-dashboards/" >}}), use [Explore]({{< relref "../../explore/" >}}), and [annotate visualizations]({{< relref "./query-editor/#apply-annotations" >}}).

## Configure the data source

To configure basic settings for the data source, complete the following steps:

1. Click **Connections** in the left-side menu.
1. Under Your connections, click **Data sources**.
1. Enter `Loki` in the search bar.
1. Select **Loki**.

   The **Settings** tab of the data source is displayed.

1. Set the data source's basic configuration options:

   | Name                | Description                                                                                                                                                         |
   | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | **Name**            | Sets the name you use to refer to the data source in panels and queries.                                                                                            |
   | **Default**         | Sets the data source that's pre-selected for new panels.                                                                                                            |
   | **URL**             | Sets the HTTP protocol, IP, and port of your Loki instance, such as `http://localhost:3100`.                                                                        |
   | **Allowed cookies** | Defines which cookies are forwarded to the data source. Grafana Proxy deletes all other cookies.                                                                    |
   | **Maximum lines**   | Sets the upper limit for the number of log lines returned by Loki. Defaults to 1,000. Lower this limit if your browser is sluggish when displaying logs in Explore. |

> **Note:** To troubleshoot configuration and other issues, check the log file located at `/var/log/grafana/grafana.log` on Unix systems, or in `<grafana_install_dir>/data/log` on other platforms and manual installations.

### Configure derived fields

The **Derived Fields** configuration helps you:

- Add fields parsed from the log message
- Add a link that uses the value of the field

For example, you can link to your tracing backend directly from your logs, or link to a user profile page if the log line contains a corresponding userId.
These links appear in the [log details]({{< relref "../../explore/logs-integration/#labels-and-detected-fields" >}}).

> **Note:** If you use Grafana Cloud, you can request modifications to this feature by [opening a support ticket in the Cloud Portal](/profile/org#support).

Each derived field consists of:

| Field name        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Name**          | Sets the field name. Displayed as a label in the log details.                                                                                                                                |
| **Regex**         | Defines a regular expression to evaluate on the log message and capture part of it as the value of the new field. Can contain only one capture group.                                        |
| **URL/query**     | Sets the full link URL if the link is external, or a query for the target data source if the link is internal. You can interpolate the value from the field with the `${__value.raw}` macro. |
| **URL Label**     | _(Optional)_ Sets a custom display label for the link. This setting overrides the link label, which defaults to the full external URL or name of the linked internal data source.            |
| **Internal link** | Defines whether the link is internal or external. For internal links, you can select the target data source from a selector. This supports only tracing data sources.                        |

#### Troubleshoot interpolation

You can use a debug section to see what your fields extract and how the URL is interpolated.
Select **Show example log message** to display a text area where you can enter a log message.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v75/loki_derived_fields_settings.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" max-width="800px" caption="Screenshot of the derived fields debugging" >}}

The new field with the link shown in log details:

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/explore/data-link-9-4.png" max-width="800px" caption="Data link in Explore" >}}

### Provision the data source

You can define and configure the data source in YAML files as part of Grafana's provisioning system.
For more information about provisioning, and for available configuration options, refer to [Provisioning Grafana]({{< relref "../../administration/provisioning/#data-sources" >}}).

#### Provisioning examples

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: Loki
    type: loki
    access: proxy
    url: http://localhost:3100
    jsonData:
      maxLines: 1000
```

**Using basic authorization and a derived field:**

You must escape the dollar (`$`) character in YAML values because it can be used to interpolate environment variables:

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: Loki
    type: loki
    access: proxy
    url: http://localhost:3100
    basicAuth: true
    basicAuthUser: my_user
    jsonData:
      maxLines: 1000
      derivedFields:
        # Field with internal link pointing to data source in Grafana.
        # Right now, Grafana supports only Jaeger and Zipkin data sources as link targets.
        # datasourceUid value can be anything, but it should be unique across all defined data source uids.
        - datasourceUid: my_jaeger_uid
          matcherRegex: "traceID=(\\w+)"
          name: TraceID
          # url will be interpreted as query for the datasource
          url: '$${__value.raw}'

        # Field with external link.
        - matcherRegex: "traceID=(\\w+)"
          name: TraceID
          url: 'http://localhost:16686/trace/$${__value.raw}'
    secureJsonData:
      basicAuthPassword: test_password
```

**Using a Jaeger data source:**

In this example, the Jaeger data source's `uid` value should match the Loki data source's `datasourceUid` value.

```
datasources:
    - name: Jaeger
      type: jaeger
      url: http://jaeger-tracing-query:16686/
      access: proxy
      # UID should match the datasourceUid in derivedFields.
      uid: my_jaeger_uid
```

## Query the data source

The Loki data source's query editor helps you create log and metric queries that use Loki's query language, [LogQL](/docs/loki/latest/logql/).

For details, refer to the [query editor documentation]({{< relref "./query-editor/" >}}).

## Use template variables

Instead of hard-coding details such as server, application, and sensor names in metric queries, you can use variables.
Grafana lists these variables in dropdown select boxes at the top of the dashboard to help you change the data displayed in your dashboard.
Grafana refers to such variables as template variables.

For details, see the [template variables documentation]({{< relref "./template-variables/" >}}).

Commit message:

Add help on creating datasources with derived fields in cloud.
The current doc entry says that Grafana Cloud uses should open a ticket to add derived fields. This is actually not necessary and adds workload on our support team. I propose to add language describing how users can help themselves buy creating a new datasource and add the derived fields there.

docs/sources/datasources/loki/_index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../data-sources/loki/
  - ../features/datasources/loki/
description: Guide for using Loki in Grafana
keywords:
  - grafana
  - loki
  - logging
  - guide
menuTitle: Loki
title: Loki data source
weight: 800
---

# Loki data source

Grafana ships with built-in support for [Loki](/docs/loki/latest/), an open-source log aggregation system by Grafana Labs.
This topic explains configuring and querying specific to the Loki data source.

For instructions on how to add a data source to Grafana, refer to the [administration documentation]({{< relref "../../administration/data-source-management/" >}}).
Only users with the organization administrator role can add data sources.
Administrators can also [configure the data source via YAML]({{< relref "#provision-the-data-source" >}}) with Grafana's provisioning system.

Once you've added the Loki data source, you can [configure it]({{< relref "#configure-the-data-source" >}}) so that your Grafana instance's users can create queries in its [query editor]({{< relref "./query-editor/" >}}) when they [build dashboards]({{< relref "../../dashboards/build-dashboards/" >}}), use [Explore]({{< relref "../../explore/" >}}), and [annotate visualizations]({{< relref "./query-editor/#apply-annotations" >}}).

## Configure the data source

To configure basic settings for the data source, complete the following steps:

1. Click **Connections** in the left-side menu.
1. Under Your connections, click **Data sources**.
1. Enter `Loki` in the search bar.
1. Select **Loki**.

   The **Settings** tab of the data source is displayed.

1. Set the data source's basic configuration options:

   | Name                | Description                                                                                                                                                         |
   | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | **Name**            | Sets the name you use to refer to the data source in panels and queries.                                                                                            |
   | **Default**         | Sets the data source that's pre-selected for new panels.                                                                                                            |
   | **URL**             | Sets the HTTP protocol, IP, and port of your Loki instance, such as `http://localhost:3100`.                                                                        |
   | **Allowed cookies** | Defines which cookies are forwarded to the data source. Grafana Proxy deletes all other cookies.                                                                    |
   | **Maximum lines**   | Sets the upper limit for the number of log lines returned by Loki. Defaults to 1,000. Lower this limit if your browser is sluggish when displaying logs in Explore. |

> **Note:** To troubleshoot configuration and other issues, check the log file located at `/var/log/grafana/grafana.log` on Unix systems, or in `<grafana_install_dir>/data/log` on other platforms and manual installations.

### Configure derived fields

The **Derived Fields** configuration helps you:

- Add fields parsed from the log message
- Add a link that uses the value of the field

For example, you can link to your tracing backend directly from your logs, or link to a user profile page if the log line contains a corresponding userId.
These links appear in the [log details]({{< relref "../../explore/logs-integration/#labels-and-detected-fields" >}}).

> **Note:** If you use Grafana Cloud, you can request modifications to this feature by [opening a support ticket in the Cloud Portal](/profile/org#support). Or create a new datasource, point it (same URL) to the existing one, use Basic Auth with the same user and provide an API key (created on grafana.com or a [token](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/service-accounts/) as Password. Then add your desired derived fields to the newly created datasource. 

Each derived field consists of:

| Field name        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Name**          | Sets the field name. Displayed as a label in the log details.                                                                                                                                |
| **Regex**         | Defines a regular expression to evaluate on the log message and capture part of it as the value of the new field. Can contain only one capture group.                                        |
| **URL/query**     | Sets the full link URL if the link is external, or a query for the target data source if the link is internal. You can interpolate the value from the field with the `${__value.raw}` macro. |
| **URL Label**     | _(Optional)_ Sets a custom display label for the link. This setting overrides the link label, which defaults to the full external URL or name of the linked internal data source.            |
| **Internal link** | Defines whether the link is internal or external. For internal links, you can select the target data source from a selector. This supports only tracing data sources.                        |

#### Troubleshoot interpolation

You can use a debug section to see what your fields extract and how the URL is interpolated.
Select **Show example log message** to display a text area where you can enter a log message.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v75/loki_derived_fields_settings.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" max-width="800px" caption="Screenshot of the derived fields debugging" >}}

The new field with the link shown in log details:

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/explore/data-link-9-4.png" max-width="800px" caption="Data link in Explore" >}}

Derived fields can be used like labels but do not add to the cardinality and can help non-technical user to access important log information faster. 

### Provision the data source

You can define and configure the data source in YAML files as part of Grafana's provisioning system.
For more information about provisioning, and for available configuration options, refer to [Provisioning Grafana]({{< relref "../../administration/provisioning/#data-sources" >}}).

#### Provisioning examples

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: Loki
    type: loki
    access: proxy
    url: http://localhost:3100
    jsonData:
      maxLines: 1000
```

**Using basic authorization and a derived field:**

You must escape the dollar (`$`) character in YAML values because it can be used to interpolate environment variables:

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: Loki
    type: loki
    access: proxy
    url: http://localhost:3100
    basicAuth: true
    basicAuthUser: my_user
    jsonData:
      maxLines: 1000
      derivedFields:
        # Field with internal link pointing to data source in Grafana.
        # Right now, Grafana supports only Jaeger and Zipkin data sources as link targets.
        # datasourceUid value can be anything, but it should be unique across all defined data source uids.
        - datasourceUid: my_jaeger_uid
          matcherRegex: "traceID=(\\w+)"
          name: TraceID
          # url will be interpreted as query for the datasource
          url: '$${__value.raw}'

        # Field with external link.
        - matcherRegex: "traceID=(\\w+)"
          name: TraceID
          url: 'http://localhost:16686/trace/$${__value.raw}'
    secureJsonData:
      basicAuthPassword: test_password
```

**Using a Jaeger data source:**

In this example, the Jaeger data source's `uid` value should match the Loki data source's `datasourceUid` value.

```
datasources:
    - name: Jaeger
      type: jaeger
      url: http://jaeger-tracing-query:16686/
      access: proxy
      # UID should match the datasourceUid in derivedFields.
      uid: my_jaeger_uid
```

## Query the data source

The Loki data source's query editor helps you create log and metric queries that use Loki's query language, [LogQL](/docs/loki/latest/logql/).

For details, refer to the [query editor documentation]({{< relref "./query-editor/" >}}).

## Use template variables

Instead of hard-coding details such as server, application, and sensor names in metric queries, you can use variables.
Grafana lists these variables in dropdown select boxes at the top of the dashboard to help you change the data displayed in your dashboard.
Grafana refers to such variables as template variables.

For details, see the [template variables documentation]({{< relref "./template-variables/" >}}).
