docs/sources/alerting/configure-notifications/manage-contact-points/integrations/configure-telegram.md, before:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/configure-notifications/manage-contact-points/integrations/configure-telegram/
description: Configure the Telegram integration to connect alerts generated by Grafana Alerting
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - telegram
  - integration
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Telegram
title: Configure Telegram for Alerting
weight: 300
---

# Configure Telegram for Alerting

Use the Grafana Alerting - Telegram integration to send [Telegram](https://telegram.org/) notifications when your alerts are firing.

## Before you begin

### Telegram bot API token and chat ID

To integrate Grafana with Telegram, you need to obtain a Telegram **bot API token** and a **chat ID** (i.e., the ID of the Telegram chat where you want to receive the alert notifications).

### Set up your Telegram bot

Create a [Telegram bot](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api). You can associate this bot to your chats and perform different actions with it, such as receiving alerts from Grafana.

To set up the bot, complete the following steps.

1. **Open the Telegram app** on your device.
1. Find the Telegram bot named **BotFather**.
1. Type or press `/newbot`.
1. Choose a name for the bot. It must end in **bot** or **\_bot**. E.g. "my_bot".
1. **Copy the API token**.

### Chat ID

Add the bot to a group chat by following the steps below. Once the bot is added to the chat, you will be able to route your alert notifications to that group.

1. In the Telegram app, **open a group or start a new one**.
1. Search and **add the bot to the group**.
1. **Interact with the bot** by sending a dummy message that starts with "`/`". E.g. `/hola @bot_name`.

   {{< figure src="/media/blog/telegram-grafana-alerting/telegram-screenshot.png" alt="A screenshot that shows a message to a Telegram bot." >}}

1. To obtain the **chat ID**, send an [HTTP request](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#getupdates) to the bot. Copy the below URL and replace `{your_bot_api_token}` with your bot API token.

   ```
   https://api.telegram.org/bot{your_bot_api_token}/getUpdates
   ```

1. **Paste the URL in your browser**.
1. If the request is successful, it will return a response in JSON format.

   ```
   ...
   "chat": {
           "id": -4065678900,
           "title": "Tony and Hello world bot",
           "type": "group",
   ...
   ```

1. Copy the value of the `“id”` that appears under `“chat”`.

## Procedure

To create your Telegram integration in Grafana Alerting, complete the following steps.

1. Navigate to **Alerts & IRM** -> **Alerting** -> **Contact points**.
1. Click **+ Add contact point**.
1. Enter a contact point name.
1. From the Integration list, select Telegram.
1. In the **BOT API Token** field, copy in the bot API token.
1. In the **Chat ID** field, copy in the chat ID.
1. Click **Test** to check that your integration works.
1. Click **Save contact point**.

## Next steps

To add the contact point and integration you created to your default notification policy, complete the following steps.

1. Navigate to **Alerts & IRM** -> **Alerting** -> **Notification policies**.
1. In the **Default policy**, click the ellipsis icon (…) and then **Edit**.
1. Change the default policy to the contact point you created.
1. Click **Update default policy**.

{{<admonition type="note">}}
If you have more than one contact point, add a new child notification policy rather than edit the default one, so you can route specific alerts to Telegram.
{{</admonition>}}

Commit message:

Add warning in telegram contact point

docs/sources/alerting/configure-notifications/manage-contact-points/integrations/configure-telegram.md, after:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/configure-notifications/manage-contact-points/integrations/configure-telegram/
description: Configure the Telegram integration to connect alerts generated by Grafana Alerting
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - telegram
  - integration
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Telegram
title: Configure Telegram for Alerting
weight: 300
---

# Configure Telegram for Alerting

Use the Grafana Alerting - Telegram integration to send [Telegram](https://telegram.org/) notifications when your alerts are firing.

## Before you begin

### Telegram limitation

Telegram messages are limited to 4096 UTF-8 characters. If you use a `parse_mode` other than `None`, truncation might result in an invalid message, and causing the notification to fail.
For longer messages, we recommend using an alternative contact method.

### Telegram bot API token and chat ID

To integrate Grafana with Telegram, you need to obtain a Telegram **bot API token** and a **chat ID** (i.e., the ID of the Telegram chat where you want to receive the alert notifications).

### Set up your Telegram bot

Create a [Telegram bot](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api). You can associate this bot to your chats and perform different actions with it, such as receiving alerts from Grafana.

To set up the bot, complete the following steps.

1. **Open the Telegram app** on your device.
1. Find the Telegram bot named **BotFather**.
1. Type or press `/newbot`.
1. Choose a name for the bot. It must end in **bot** or **\_bot**. E.g. "my_bot".
1. **Copy the API token**.

### Chat ID

Add the bot to a group chat by following the steps below. Once the bot is added to the chat, you will be able to route your alert notifications to that group.

1. In the Telegram app, **open a group or start a new one**.
1. Search and **add the bot to the group**.
1. **Interact with the bot** by sending a dummy message that starts with "`/`". E.g. `/hola @bot_name`.

   {{< figure src="/media/blog/telegram-grafana-alerting/telegram-screenshot.png" alt="A screenshot that shows a message to a Telegram bot." >}}

1. To obtain the **chat ID**, send an [HTTP request](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#getupdates) to the bot. Copy the below URL and replace `{your_bot_api_token}` with your bot API token.

   ```
   https://api.telegram.org/bot{your_bot_api_token}/getUpdates
   ```

1. **Paste the URL in your browser**.
1. If the request is successful, it will return a response in JSON format.

   ```
   ...
   "chat": {
           "id": -4065678900,
           "title": "Tony and Hello world bot",
           "type": "group",
   ...
   ```

1. Copy the value of the `“id”` that appears under `“chat”`.

## Procedure

To create your Telegram integration in Grafana Alerting, complete the following steps.

1. Navigate to **Alerts & IRM** -> **Alerting** -> **Contact points**.
1. Click **+ Add contact point**.
1. Enter a contact point name.
1. From the Integration list, select Telegram.
1. In the **BOT API Token** field, copy in the bot API token.
1. In the **Chat ID** field, copy in the chat ID.
1. Click **Test** to check that your integration works.
1. Click **Save contact point**.

## Next steps

To add the contact point and integration you created to your default notification policy, complete the following steps.

1. Navigate to **Alerts & IRM** -> **Alerting** -> **Notification policies**.
1. In the **Default policy**, click the ellipsis icon (…) and then **Edit**.
1. Change the default policy to the contact point you created.
1. Click **Update default policy**.

{{<admonition type="note">}}
If you have more than one contact point, add a new child notification policy rather than edit the default one, so you can route specific alerts to Telegram.
{{</admonition>}}
