docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/candlestick/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../../features/panels/candlestick/
  - ../../panels/visualizations/candlestick/
  - ../../visualizations/candlestick/
description: Candlestick visualization documentation
keywords:
  - grafana
  - Candlestick
  - OHLC
  - panel
  - documentation
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Candlestick
weight: 600
---

# Candlestick

The Candlestick panel allows you to visualize data that includes a number of consistent dimensions focused on price movement. The Candlestick panel includes an Open-High-Low-Close (OHLC) mode, as well as support for additional dimensions based on time series data.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/candlestick-panel/candlestick-panel-8-3.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Candlestick panel" >}}

The Candlestick panel builds upon the foundation of the [time series]({{< relref "time-series/" >}}) panel and includes many common configuration settings.

## Mode

The mode options allow you to toggle which dimensions are used for the visualization.

- **Candles** limits the panel dimensions to the open, high, low, and close dimensions used by candlestick visualizations.
- **Volume** limits the panel dimension to the volume dimension.
- **Both** is the default behavior for the candlestick panel. It includes both candlestick and volume visualizations.

## Candle style

- **Candles** is the default display style and creates candle-style visualizations between the open and close dimensions.
- **OHLC Bars** displays the four core dimensions open, high, low, and close values.

## Color strategy

- **Since Open** is the default behavior. This mode will utilize the _Up_ color (below) if the intra-period price movement is positive. In other words, if the value on close is greater or equal to the value on open, the _Up_ color is used.
- **Since Prior Close** is an alternative display method based where the color of the candle is based on the inter-period price movement or change in value. In other words, if the value on open is greater than the previous value on close, the _Up_ color is used. If the value on open is lower than the previous value on close, the _Down_ color is used. _This option also triggers the hollow candlestick visualization mode_. Hollow candlesticks indicate that the intra-period movement is positive (value is higher on close than on open), filled candlesticks indicate the intra-period change is negative (value is lower on close than on open). To learn more, see the [explanation of the differences](https://thetradingbible.com/how-to-read-hollow-candlesticks).

## Up & Down Colors

The **Up color** and **Down color** options select which colors are used when the price movement is up or down. Please note that the _Color strategy_ above will determine if intra-period or inter-period price movement is used to select the candle or OHLC bar color.

## Open, High, Low, Close

The candlestick panel will attempt to map fields to the appropriate dimension. The **Open**, **High**, **Low**, and **Close** options allow you to map your data to these dimensions if the panel is unable to do so.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
These values are hidden from the legend.
{{% /admonition %}}

- **Open** corresponds to the starting value of the given period.
- **High** corresponds to the highest value of the given period.
- **Low** corresponds to the lowest value of the given period.
- **Close** corresponds to the final (end) value of the given period.
- **Volume** corresponds to the sample count in the given period. (e.g. number of trades)

## Additional fields

The candlestick panel is based on the time series panel. It can visualization additional data dimensions beyond open, high, low, close, and volume The **Include** and **Ignore** options allow the panel to visualize other included data such as simple moving averages, Bollinger bands and more, using the same styles and configurations available in the [time series]({{< relref "time-series/" >}}) panel.

Commit message:

Update panels-visualizations pages to use `docs/reference` shortcode
Signed-off-by: Jack Baldry <jack.baldry@grafana.com>

docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/candlestick/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../../features/panels/candlestick/
  - ../../panels/visualizations/candlestick/
  - ../../visualizations/candlestick/
description: Candlestick visualization documentation
keywords:
  - grafana
  - Candlestick
  - OHLC
  - panel
  - documentation
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Candlestick
weight: 600
---

# Candlestick

The Candlestick panel allows you to visualize data that includes a number of consistent dimensions focused on price movement. The Candlestick panel includes an Open-High-Low-Close (OHLC) mode, as well as support for additional dimensions based on time series data.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/candlestick-panel/candlestick-panel-8-3.png" max-width="1200px" caption="Candlestick panel" >}}

The Candlestick panel builds upon the foundation of the [time series][] panel and includes many common configuration settings.

## Mode

The mode options allow you to toggle which dimensions are used for the visualization.

- **Candles** limits the panel dimensions to the open, high, low, and close dimensions used by candlestick visualizations.
- **Volume** limits the panel dimension to the volume dimension.
- **Both** is the default behavior for the candlestick panel. It includes both candlestick and volume visualizations.

## Candle style

- **Candles** is the default display style and creates candle-style visualizations between the open and close dimensions.
- **OHLC Bars** displays the four core dimensions open, high, low, and close values.

## Color strategy

- **Since Open** is the default behavior. This mode will utilize the _Up_ color (below) if the intra-period price movement is positive. In other words, if the value on close is greater or equal to the value on open, the _Up_ color is used.
- **Since Prior Close** is an alternative display method based where the color of the candle is based on the inter-period price movement or change in value. In other words, if the value on open is greater than the previous value on close, the _Up_ color is used. If the value on open is lower than the previous value on close, the _Down_ color is used. _This option also triggers the hollow candlestick visualization mode_. Hollow candlesticks indicate that the intra-period movement is positive (value is higher on close than on open), filled candlesticks indicate the intra-period change is negative (value is lower on close than on open). To learn more, see the [explanation of the differences](https://thetradingbible.com/how-to-read-hollow-candlesticks).

## Up & Down Colors

The **Up color** and **Down color** options select which colors are used when the price movement is up or down. Please note that the _Color strategy_ above will determine if intra-period or inter-period price movement is used to select the candle or OHLC bar color.

## Open, High, Low, Close

The candlestick panel will attempt to map fields to the appropriate dimension. The **Open**, **High**, **Low**, and **Close** options allow you to map your data to these dimensions if the panel is unable to do so.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
These values are hidden from the legend.
{{% /admonition %}}

- **Open** corresponds to the starting value of the given period.
- **High** corresponds to the highest value of the given period.
- **Low** corresponds to the lowest value of the given period.
- **Close** corresponds to the final (end) value of the given period.
- **Volume** corresponds to the sample count in the given period. (e.g. number of trades)

## Additional fields

The candlestick panel is based on the time series panel. It can visualization additional data dimensions beyond open, high, low, close, and volume The **Include** and **Ignore** options allow the panel to visualize other included data such as simple moving averages, Bollinger bands and more, using the same styles and configurations available in the [time series][] panel.

{{% docs/reference %}}
[time series]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/visualizations/time-series"
[time series]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/visualizations/time-series"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
