README.md, before:

[Grafana](http://grafana.org) [![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/raintank/grafana.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/grafana/grafana) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/grafana/grafana/badge.png)](https://coveralls.io/r/grafana/grafana) [![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/grafana/grafana?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
================
[Website](http://grafana.org) |
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/grafana) |
[IRC](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=grafana) |
[Email](mailto:contact@grafana.org)

Grafana is an open source, feature rich metrics dashboard and graph editor for
Graphite, InfluxDB & OpenTSDB.

![](http://grafana.org/assets/img/start_page_bg.png)

## Grafana 2.0
The develop branch has now been merged with master. For 1.9 users this is a big change as Grafana is no longer
a standalone frontend only web application. Grafana 2.0 comes with a backend.
- [Install instructions](http://docs.grafana.org/v2.0/installation/)
- [Migrating from 1.x to 2.x](http://docs.grafana.org/v2.0/installation/migrating_to2/)
- [What's New in Grafana 2.0](http://docs.grafana.org/v2.0/guides/whats-new-in-v2/)

## Features
### Graphite Target Editor
- Graphite target expression parser
- Feature rich query composer
- Quickly add and edit functions & parameters
- Templated queries
- [See it in action](http://docs.grafana.org/datasources/graphite/)

### Graphing
- Fast rendering, even over large timespans
- Click and drag to zoom
- Multiple Y-axis, logarithmic scales
- Bars, Lines, Points
- Smart Y-axis formating
- Series toggles & color selector
- Legend values, and formatting options
- Grid thresholds, axis labels
- [Annotations](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/annotations/)
- Any panel can be rendered to PNG (server side using phantomjs)

### Dashboards
- Create, edit, save & search dashboards
- Change column spans and row heights
- Drag and drop panels to rearrange
- [Templating](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/templating/)
- [Scripted dashboards](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/scripting/)
- [Dashboard playlists](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/playlist/)
- [Time range controls](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/timerange/)
- [Share snapshots publicly](http://docs.grafana.org/v2.0/reference/sharing/)

### InfluxDB
- Use InfluxDB as a metric data source, annotation source
- Query editor with series and column typeahead, easy group by and function selection

### OpenTSDB
- Use as metric data source
- Query editor with metric name typeahead and tag filtering

## Requirements
There are no dependencies except an external time series data store. For dashboards and user accounts Grafana can use an embedded
database (sqlite3) or you can use an external SQL data base like MySQL or Postgres.

## Installation
Head to [grafana.org](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/) and [download](http://grafana.org/download/)
the latest release.

If you have any problems please read the [troubleshooting guide](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/troubleshooting/).

## Documentation & Support
Be sure to read the [getting started guide](http://docs.grafana.org/guides/gettingstarted/) and the other feature guides.

## Run from master
If you want to build a package your self, or contribute. Here is a guide for how to do that. You can always find
the latest master builds [here](http://grafana.org/download/builds)

### Dependencies

- Go 1.4
- NodeJS

### Get Code

```
go get github.com/grafana/grafana
```

### Building the backend
```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/grafana/grafana
go run build.go setup            (only needed once to install godep)
godep restore                    (will pull down all golang lib dependencies in your current GOPATH)
go build .
```

### Building frontend assets

To build less to css for the frontend you will need a recent version of of node (v0.12.0),
npm (v2.5.0) and grunt (v0.4.5). Run the following:

```
npm install
npm install -g grunt-cli
grunt
```

### Recompile backend on source change
To rebuild on source change (requires that you executed godep restore)
```
go get github.com/Unknwon/bra
bra run
```

### Running
```
./grafana
```

Open grafana in your browser (default http://localhost:3000) and login with admin user (default user/pass = admin/admin).

### Dev config

Create a custom.ini in the conf directory to override default configuration options.
You only need to add the options you want to override. Config files are applied in the order of:

1. grafana.ini
2. dev.ini (if found)
3. custom.ini

## Create a pull request
Before or after you create a pull request, sign the [contributor license agreement](http://grafana.org/docs/contributing/cla.html).
## Contribute
If you have any idea for an improvement or found a bug do not hesitate to open an issue.
And if you have time clone this repo and submit a pull request and help me make Grafana
the kickass metrics & devops dashboard we all dream about!

Before creating a pull request be sure that "grunt test" runs without any style or unit test errors, also
please [sign the CLA](http://grafana.org/docs/contributing/cla.html)

## License

Grafana is distributed under Apache 2.0 License.
Work in progress Grafana 2.0 (with included Grafana backend)

Commit message:

update build instructions to build raintank version

README.md, after:

[Grafana](http://grafana.org) [![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/raintank/grafana.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/grafana/grafana) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/grafana/grafana/badge.png)](https://coveralls.io/r/grafana/grafana) [![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/grafana/grafana?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
================
[Website](http://grafana.org) |
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/grafana) |
[IRC](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=grafana) |
[Email](mailto:contact@grafana.org)

Grafana is an open source, feature rich metrics dashboard and graph editor for
Graphite, InfluxDB & OpenTSDB.

![](http://grafana.org/assets/img/start_page_bg.png)

## Grafana 2.0
The develop branch has now been merged with master. For 1.9 users this is a big change as Grafana is no longer
a standalone frontend only web application. Grafana 2.0 comes with a backend.
- [Install instructions](http://docs.grafana.org/v2.0/installation/)
- [Migrating from 1.x to 2.x](http://docs.grafana.org/v2.0/installation/migrating_to2/)
- [What's New in Grafana 2.0](http://docs.grafana.org/v2.0/guides/whats-new-in-v2/)

## Features
### Graphite Target Editor
- Graphite target expression parser
- Feature rich query composer
- Quickly add and edit functions & parameters
- Templated queries
- [See it in action](http://docs.grafana.org/datasources/graphite/)

### Graphing
- Fast rendering, even over large timespans
- Click and drag to zoom
- Multiple Y-axis, logarithmic scales
- Bars, Lines, Points
- Smart Y-axis formating
- Series toggles & color selector
- Legend values, and formatting options
- Grid thresholds, axis labels
- [Annotations](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/annotations/)
- Any panel can be rendered to PNG (server side using phantomjs)

### Dashboards
- Create, edit, save & search dashboards
- Change column spans and row heights
- Drag and drop panels to rearrange
- [Templating](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/templating/)
- [Scripted dashboards](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/scripting/)
- [Dashboard playlists](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/playlist/)
- [Time range controls](http://docs.grafana.org/reference/timerange/)
- [Share snapshots publicly](http://docs.grafana.org/v2.0/reference/sharing/)

### InfluxDB
- Use InfluxDB as a metric data source, annotation source
- Query editor with series and column typeahead, easy group by and function selection

### OpenTSDB
- Use as metric data source
- Query editor with metric name typeahead and tag filtering

## Requirements
There are no dependencies except an external time series data store. For dashboards and user accounts Grafana can use an embedded
database (sqlite3) or you can use an external SQL data base like MySQL or Postgres.

## Installation
Head to [grafana.org](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/) and [download](http://grafana.org/download/)
the latest release.

If you have any problems please read the [troubleshooting guide](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/troubleshooting/).

## Documentation & Support
Be sure to read the [getting started guide](http://docs.grafana.org/guides/gettingstarted/) and the other feature guides.

## Run from master
If you want to build a package your self, or contribute. Here is a guide for how to do that. You can always find
the latest master builds [here](http://grafana.org/download/builds)

### Dependencies

- Go 1.4
- NodeJS

### Setting up the code directories for the raintank version.

```
go get github.com/grafana/grafana
go get github.com/raintank/grafana
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/grafana/
mv grafana grafana-upstream
ln -s $GOPATH/src/github.com/raintank/grafana .
```

### Building the backend

Note that we need to use the `github.com/grafana/grafana` directory because that's what the import path is.
If you so desire, you can switch back and forth between raintank version and upstream version by adding a remote
and switching branches.  But if you followed the above instructions, this will by default let you work with the raintank version:

```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/grafana/grafana
go run build.go setup            (only needed once to install godep)
godep restore                    (will pull down all golang lib dependencies in your current GOPATH)
go build .
```

### Building frontend assets

To build less to css for the frontend you will need a recent version of of node (v0.12.0),
npm (v2.5.0) and grunt (v0.4.5). Run the following:

```
npm install
npm install -g grunt-cli
grunt
```

### Recompile backend on source change
To rebuild on source change (requires that you executed godep restore)
```
go get github.com/Unknwon/bra
bra run
```

### Running
```
./grafana
```

Open grafana in your browser (default http://localhost:3000) and login with admin user (default user/pass = admin/admin).

### Dev config

Create a custom.ini in the conf directory to override default configuration options.
You only need to add the options you want to override. Config files are applied in the order of:

1. grafana.ini
2. dev.ini (if found)
3. custom.ini

## Create a pull request
Before or after you create a pull request, sign the [contributor license agreement](http://grafana.org/docs/contributing/cla.html).
## Contribute
If you have any idea for an improvement or found a bug do not hesitate to open an issue.
And if you have time clone this repo and submit a pull request and help me make Grafana
the kickass metrics & devops dashboard we all dream about!

Before creating a pull request be sure that "grunt test" runs without any style or unit test errors, also
please [sign the CLA](http://grafana.org/docs/contributing/cla.html)

## License

Grafana is distributed under Apache 2.0 License.
Work in progress Grafana 2.0 (with included Grafana backend)
