SECURITY.md, before:

# Reporting security issues

If you think you have found a security vulnerability, please send a report to [security@grafana.com](mailto:security@grafana.com). This address can be used for all of Grafana Labs's open source and commercial products (including but not limited to Grafana, Grafana Cloud, Grafana Enterprise, and grafana.com). We can accept only vulnerability reports at this address.

Please encrypt your message to us; please use our PGP key. The key fingerprint is:

F988 7BEA 027A 049F AE8E 5CAA D125 8932 BE24 C5CA

The key is available from [keyserver.ubuntu.com](https://keyserver.ubuntu.com/pks/lookup?search=0xF9887BEA027A049FAE8E5CAAD1258932BE24C5CA&fingerprint=on&op=index).

Grafana Labs will send you a response indicating the next steps in handling your report. After the initial reply to your report, the security team will keep you informed of the progress towards a fix and full announcement, and may ask for additional information or guidance.

**Important:** We ask you to not disclose the vulnerability before it have been fixed and announced, unless you received a response from the Grafana Labs security team that you can do so.

## Security announcements

We maintain a category on the community site called [Security Announcements](https://community.grafana.com/c/support/security-announcements),
where we will post a summary, remediation, and mitigation details for any patch containing security fixes.

You can also subscribe to email updates to this category if you have a grafana.com account and sign on to the community site or track updates via an [RSS feed](https://community.grafana.com/c/support/security-announcements.rss).

Commit message:

Docs: Update RSS feed in security page (#56439)
* Update RSS security feed

* docs: update security.md to refer to blog

* Update SECURITY.md

Co-authored-by: Richard Hartmann <RichiH@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Daniel Lee <dan.limerick@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Richard Hartmann <RichiH@users.noreply.github.com>

SECURITY.md, after:

# Reporting security issues

If you think you have found a security vulnerability, please send a report to [security@grafana.com](mailto:security@grafana.com). This address can be used for all of Grafana Labs's open source and commercial products (including but not limited to Grafana, Grafana Cloud, Grafana Enterprise, and grafana.com). We can accept only vulnerability reports at this address.

Please encrypt your message to us; please use our PGP key. The key fingerprint is:

F988 7BEA 027A 049F AE8E 5CAA D125 8932 BE24 C5CA

The key is available from [keyserver.ubuntu.com](https://keyserver.ubuntu.com/pks/lookup?search=0xF9887BEA027A049FAE8E5CAAD1258932BE24C5CA&fingerprint=on&op=index).

Grafana Labs will send you a response indicating the next steps in handling your report. After the initial reply to your report, the security team will keep you informed of the progress towards a fix and full announcement, and may ask for additional information or guidance.

**Important:** We ask you to not disclose the vulnerability before it have been fixed and announced, unless you received a response from the Grafana Labs security team that you can do so.

## Security announcements

We will post a summary, remediation, and mitigation details for any patch containing security fixes on the Grafana blog. The security announcement blog posts will be tagged with the [security tag](https://grafana.com/tags/security/).

You can also track security announcements via the [RSS feed](https://grafana.com/tags/security/index.xml).
