docs/sources/alerting/manage-notifications/create-contact-point.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../contact-points/create-contact-point/
  - ../contact-points/delete-contact-point/
  - ../contact-points/edit-contact-point/
  - ../contact-points/message-templating/
  - ../contact-points/test-contact-point/
  - ../message-templating/
  - ../unified-alerting/message-templating/
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - guide
  - contact point
  - templating
title: Manage contact points
weight: 100
---

# Manage contact points

Use contact points to define how your contacts are notified when an alert rule fires. You can create, edit, delete, and test a contact point.

## Add a contact point

Complete the following steps to add a contact point.

1. In the Grafana menu, click the **Alerting** (bell) icon to open the Alerting page listing existing alerts.
1. Click **Contact points** to open the page listing existing contact points.
1. Click **New contact point**.
1. From the **Alertmanager** dropdown, select an Alertmanager. By default, Grafana Alertmanager is selected.
1. In **Name**, enter a descriptive name for the contact point.
1. From **Contact point type**, select a type and fill out mandatory fields. For example, if you choose email, enter the email addresses. Or if you choose Slack, enter the Slack channel(s) and users who should be contacted.
1. Some contact point types, like email or webhook, have optional settings. In **Optional settings**, specify additional settings for the selected contact point type.
1. In Notification settings, optionally select **Disable resolved message** if you do not want to be notified when an alert resolves.
1. To add another contact point type, click **New contact point type** and repeat steps 6 through 8.
1. Click **Save contact point** to save your changes.

## Edit a contact point

Complete the following steps to edit a contact point.

1. In the Alerting page, click **Contact points** to open the page listing existing contact points.
1. Find the contact point to edit, then click **Edit** (pen icon).
1. Make any changes and click **Save contact point**.

## Delete a contact point

Complete the following steps to delete a contact point.

1. In the Alerting page, click **Contact points** to open the page listing existing contact points.
1. Find the contact point to delete, then click **Delete** (trash icon).
1. In the confirmation dialog, click **Yes, delete**.

> **Note:** You cannot delete contact points that are in use by a notification policy. You will have to either delete the notification policy or update it to use another contact point.

## Test a contact point

Complete the following steps to test a contact point.

1. In the Grafana side bar, hover your cursor over the **Alerting** (bell) icon and then click **Contact** points.
1. Find the contact point to test, then click **Edit** (pen icon). You can also create a new contact point if needed.
1. Click **Test** (paper airplane icon) to open the contact point testing modal.
1. Choose whether to send a predefined test notification or choose custom to add your own custom annotations and labels to include in the notification.
1. Click **Send test notification** to fire the alert.

Commit message:

Alerting: Rename contact point type to receiver in the user interface (#59589)
This commit renames contact point type to integration in the user interface
as "New contact point type" suggests that you are creating a new type,
when instead you are just creating a new integration of a pre-determined type,
such as email or Slack. You can also have two or more integrations of the same
type, something which is not apparent from the current text.

This change will also make it easier to explain the difference between
a contact point integration, and how to configure an integration of a certain type,
such as email.

docs/sources/alerting/manage-notifications/create-contact-point.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../contact-points/create-contact-point/
  - ../contact-points/delete-contact-point/
  - ../contact-points/edit-contact-point/
  - ../contact-points/message-templating/
  - ../contact-points/test-contact-point/
  - ../message-templating/
  - ../unified-alerting/message-templating/
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - guide
  - contact point
  - templating
title: Manage contact points
weight: 100
---

# Manage contact points

Use contact points to define how your contacts are notified when an alert rule fires. You can create, edit, delete, and test a contact point.

## Add a contact point

Complete the following steps to add a contact point.

1. In the Grafana menu, click the **Alerting** (bell) icon to open the Alerting page listing existing alerts.
1. Click **Contact points** to open the page listing existing contact points.
1. Click **New contact point**.
1. From the **Alertmanager** dropdown, select an Alertmanager. By default, Grafana Alertmanager is selected.
1. In **Name**, enter a descriptive name for the contact point.
1. From **Contact point integration**, select a type and fill out mandatory fields. For example, if you choose email, enter the email addresses. Or if you choose Slack, enter the Slack channel(s) and users who should be contacted.
1. Some contact point integrations, like email or webhook, have optional settings. In **Optional settings**, specify additional settings for the selected contact point integration.
1. In Notification settings, optionally select **Disable resolved message** if you do not want to be notified when an alert resolves.
1. To add another contact point integration, click **New contact point integration** and repeat steps 6 through 8.
1. Click **Save contact point** to save your changes.

## Edit a contact point

Complete the following steps to edit a contact point.

1. In the Alerting page, click **Contact points** to open the page listing existing contact points.
1. Find the contact point to edit, then click **Edit** (pen icon).
1. Make any changes and click **Save contact point**.

## Delete a contact point

Complete the following steps to delete a contact point.

1. In the Alerting page, click **Contact points** to open the page listing existing contact points.
1. Find the contact point to delete, then click **Delete** (trash icon).
1. In the confirmation dialog, click **Yes, delete**.

> **Note:** You cannot delete contact points that are in use by a notification policy. You will have to either delete the notification policy or update it to use another contact point.

## Test a contact point

Complete the following steps to test a contact point.

1. In the Grafana side bar, hover your cursor over the **Alerting** (bell) icon and then click **Contact** points.
1. Find the contact point to test, then click **Edit** (pen icon). You can also create a new contact point if needed.
1. Click **Test** (paper airplane icon) to open the contact point testing modal.
1. Choose whether to send a predefined test notification or choose custom to add your own custom annotations and labels to include in the notification.
1. Click **Send test notification** to fire the alert.
