docs/sources/datasources/alertmanager/_index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../data-sources/alertmanager/
  - ../features/datasources/alertmanager/
description: Guide for using Alertmanager as a data source in Grafana
keywords:
  - grafana
  - prometheus
  - alertmanager
  - guide
  - queries
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Alertmanager
title: Alertmanager data source
weight: 150
---

# Alertmanager data source

Grafana includes built-in support for Alertmanager implementations in Prometheus and Mimir.
Once you add it as a data source, you can use the [Grafana Alerting UI][alerting] to manage silences, contact points, and notification policies.
To switch between Grafana and any configured Alertmanager data sources, you can select your preference from a drop-down option in those databases' data source settings pages.

## Alertmanager implementations

The data source supports [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) and [Grafana Mimir](/docs/mimir/latest/) (default) implementations of Alertmanager.
You can specify the implementation in the data source's Settings page.
When using Prometheus, contact points and notification policies are read-only in the Grafana Alerting UI, because it doesn't support updates to the configuration using HTTP API.

## Configure the data source

To configure basic settings for the data source, complete the following steps:

1. Click **Connections** in the left-side menu.
1. Under Your connections, click **Data sources**.
1. Enter `Alertmanager` in the search bar.
1. Click **Alertmanager**.

   The **Settings** tab of the data source is displayed.

1. Set the data source's basic configuration options:

   | Name                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
   | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | **Name**                        | Sets the name you use to refer to the data source                                                                                                                                                             |
   | **Default**                     | Sets whether the data source is pre-selected for new panels and queries                                                                                                                                       |
   | **Alertmanager Implementation** | Alertmanager implementation. **Mimir**, **Cortex,** and **Prometheus** are supported                                                                                                                          |
   | **Receive Grafana Alerts**      | When enabled the Alertmanager receives alert instances from Grafana-managed alert rules. **Important:** It works only if Grafana alerting is configured to send its alert instances to external Alertmanagers |
   | **HTTP URL**                    | Sets the HTTP protocol, IP, and port of your Alertmanager instance, such as `https://alertmanager.example.org:9093`                                                                                           |
   | **Access**                      | Only **Server** access mode is functional                                                                                                                                                                     |

## Provision the Alertmanager data source

You can provision Alertmanager data sources by updating Grafana's configuration files.
For more information on provisioning, and common settings available, refer to the [provisioning docs page][data-sources].

Here is an example for provisioning the Alertmanager data source:

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: Alertmanager
    type: alertmanager
    url: http://localhost:9093
    access: proxy
    jsonData:
      # Valid options for implementation include mimir, cortex and prometheus
      implementation: prometheus
      # Whether or not Grafana should send alert instances to this Alertmanager
      handleGrafanaManagedAlerts: false
    # optionally
    basicAuth: true
    basicAuthUser: my_user
    secureJsonData:
      basicAuthPassword: test_password
```

{{% docs/reference %}}
[alerting]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/alerting"
[alerting]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting"

[data-sources]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/provisioning#datasources"
[data-sources]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/provisioning#datasources"
{{% /docs/reference %}}

Commit message:

[v10.4.x] [docs/sources/datasources] Replace docs/reference shortcode with ref URIs (#88066)

docs/sources/datasources/alertmanager/_index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../data-sources/alertmanager/
  - ../features/datasources/alertmanager/
description: Guide for using Alertmanager as a data source in Grafana
keywords:
  - grafana
  - prometheus
  - alertmanager
  - guide
  - queries
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Alertmanager
title: Alertmanager data source
weight: 150
refs:
  alerting:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/alerting/
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting/
  data-sources:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/provisioning/#datasources
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/provisioning/#datasources
---

# Alertmanager data source

Grafana includes built-in support for Alertmanager implementations in Prometheus and Mimir.
Once you add it as a data source, you can use the [Grafana Alerting UI](ref:alerting) to manage silences, contact points, and notification policies.
To switch between Grafana and any configured Alertmanager data sources, you can select your preference from a drop-down option in those databases' data source settings pages.

## Alertmanager implementations

The data source supports [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) and [Grafana Mimir](/docs/mimir/latest/) (default) implementations of Alertmanager.
You can specify the implementation in the data source's Settings page.
When using Prometheus, contact points and notification policies are read-only in the Grafana Alerting UI, because it doesn't support updates to the configuration using HTTP API.

## Configure the data source

To configure basic settings for the data source, complete the following steps:

1. Click **Connections** in the left-side menu.
1. Under Your connections, click **Data sources**.
1. Enter `Alertmanager` in the search bar.
1. Click **Alertmanager**.

   The **Settings** tab of the data source is displayed.

1. Set the data source's basic configuration options:

   | Name                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
   | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | **Name**                        | Sets the name you use to refer to the data source                                                                                                                                                             |
   | **Default**                     | Sets whether the data source is pre-selected for new panels and queries                                                                                                                                       |
   | **Alertmanager Implementation** | Alertmanager implementation. **Mimir**, **Cortex,** and **Prometheus** are supported                                                                                                                          |
   | **Receive Grafana Alerts**      | When enabled the Alertmanager receives alert instances from Grafana-managed alert rules. **Important:** It works only if Grafana alerting is configured to send its alert instances to external Alertmanagers |
   | **HTTP URL**                    | Sets the HTTP protocol, IP, and port of your Alertmanager instance, such as `https://alertmanager.example.org:9093`                                                                                           |
   | **Access**                      | Only **Server** access mode is functional                                                                                                                                                                     |

## Provision the Alertmanager data source

You can provision Alertmanager data sources by updating Grafana's configuration files.
For more information on provisioning, and common settings available, refer to the [provisioning docs page](ref:data-sources).

Here is an example for provisioning the Alertmanager data source:

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: Alertmanager
    type: alertmanager
    url: http://localhost:9093
    access: proxy
    jsonData:
      # Valid options for implementation include mimir, cortex and prometheus
      implementation: prometheus
      # Whether or not Grafana should send alert instances to this Alertmanager
      handleGrafanaManagedAlerts: false
    # optionally
    basicAuth: true
    basicAuthUser: my_user
    secureJsonData:
      basicAuthPassword: test_password
```
