docs/sources/developers/plugins/add-distributed-tracing-for-backend-plugins.md, before:

---
title: Add distributed tracing for backend plugins
---

# Add distributed tracing for backend plugins

> **Note:** This feature requires at least Grafana 9.5.0, and your plugin needs to be built at least with
> grafana-plugins-sdk-go v0.157.0. If you run a plugin with tracing features on an older version of Grafana,
> tracing will be disabled.

> **Note:** Only Opentelemetry is supported. If Grafana is configured to use a deprecated tracing systems (Jaeger or Opentracing),
> tracing will be disabled in the plugin. Please note that Opentelemetry + Jaeger propagator is supported.

## Introduction

Distributed tracing allows backend plugin developers to create custom spans in their plugins, and send them to the same endpoint
as the main Grafana instance. This also propagates the tracing context from the Grafana instance to the plugin, so the plugin's spans
will be correlated to the correct trace.

## Configuration

OpenTelemetry must be enabled and configured for the Grafana instance. Please refer to [this section](
{{< relref "../../setup-grafana/configure-grafana/#tracingopentelemetry" >}}) for more information.

As of Grafana 9.5.0, plugins tracing must be enabled manually on a per-plugin basis, by specifying `tracing = true` in the plugin's config section:

```ini
[plugin.myorg-myplugin-datasource]
tracing = true
```

## Implementing tracing in your plugin

When OpenTelemetry tracing is enabled on the main Grafana instance and tracing is enabeld for a plugin,
the Opentelemetry endpoint address and propagation format will be passed to the plugin during startup,
which will be used to configure a global tracer.

<ol>
<li>The global tracer is configured automatically if you use <code>datasource.Manage</code> or <code>app.Manage</code> to run your plugin.

This also allows you to specify custom attributes for the default tracer:

```go
func main() {
    if err := datasource.Manage("MY_PLUGIN_ID", plugin.NewDatasource, datasource.ManageOpts{
        TracingOpts: tracing.Opts{
            // Optional custom attributes attached to the tracer's resource.
            // The tracer will already have some SDK and runtime ones pre-populated.
            CustomAttributes: []attribute.KeyValue{
                attribute.String("my_plugin.my_attribute", "custom value"),
            },
        },
    }); err != nil {
        log.DefaultLogger.Error(err.Error())
        os.Exit(1)
    }
}
```

If you are not using automatic instance management, you have to configure the global tracer manually by calling:

```go
backend.SetupTracer("MY_PLUGIN_ID", tracing.Opts{})
```

</li>

<li>
Once tracing is configured (either manually or by calling <code>Manage</code>), you can access the global tracer with:

```go
tracing.DefaultTracer()
```

this returns an [OpenTelemetry trace.Tracer](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace#Tracer), and can be used to create spans.

For example:

```go
func (d *Datasource) query(ctx context.Context, pCtx backend.PluginContext, query backend.DataQuery) (backend.DataResponse, error) {
    ctx, span := tracing.DefaultTracer().Start(
        ctx,
        "query processing",
        trace.WithAttributes(
            attribute.String("query.ref_id", query.RefID),
            attribute.String("query.type", query.QueryType),
            attribute.Int64("query.max_data_points", query.MaxDataPoints),
            attribute.Int64("query.interval_ms", query.Interval.Milliseconds()),
            attribute.Int64("query.time_range.from", query.TimeRange.From.Unix()),
            attribute.Int64("query.time_range.to", query.TimeRange.To.Unix()),
        ),
    )
    defer span.End()
    log.DefaultLogger.Debug("query", "traceID", trace.SpanContextFromContext(ctx).TraceID())
}
```

Please refer to the [OpenTelemetry Go SDK](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel) for in-depth documentation on all the features provided by OpenTelemetry.

If tracing is disabled in Grafana, `backend.DefaultTracer()` returns a no-op tracer.

</li>

</ol>

### Tracing GRPC calls

A new span is created automatically for each GRPC call (`QueryData`, `CheckHealth`, etc), both on Grafana's side and
on the plugin's side.

This also injects the trace context into the `context.Context` passed to those methods.

This allows you to retrieve the [trace.SpanContext](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace#SpanContext) by using `tracing.SpanContextFromContext` by passing the original `context.Context` to it:

```go
func (d *Datasource) query(ctx context.Context, pCtx backend.PluginContext, query backend.DataQuery) (backend.DataResponse, error) {
    spanCtx := trace.SpanContextFromContext(ctx)
    traceID := spanCtx.TraceID()

    // ...
}
```

### Tracing HTTP requests

When tracing is enabled, a `TracingMiddleware` is also added to the default middleware stack to all http clients created
using the `httpclient.New` or `httpclient.NewProvider`, unless custom middlewares are specified.

This middleware creates spans for each outgoing HTTP request and provides some useful attributes and events related to the HTTP request.

## Complete plugin example

You can refer to the [datasource-http-backend plugin example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/tree/main/examples/datasource-http-backend) for a complete example of a plugin that has full tracing support.

Commit message:

Docs: Plugins: Tracing: Add note about min SDK version and update command

docs/sources/developers/plugins/add-distributed-tracing-for-backend-plugins.md, after:

---
title: Add distributed tracing for backend plugins
---

# Add distributed tracing for backend plugins

> **Note:** This feature requires at least Grafana 9.5.0, and your plugin needs to be built at least with
> grafana-plugins-sdk-go v0.157.0. If you run a plugin with tracing features on an older version of Grafana,
> tracing will be disabled.

> **Note:** Only Opentelemetry is supported. If Grafana is configured to use a deprecated tracing systems (Jaeger or Opentracing),
> tracing will be disabled in the plugin. Please note that Opentelemetry + Jaeger propagator is supported.

## Introduction

Distributed tracing allows backend plugin developers to create custom spans in their plugins, and send them to the same endpoint
as the main Grafana instance. This also propagates the tracing context from the Grafana instance to the plugin, so the plugin's spans
will be correlated to the correct trace.

## Configuration

OpenTelemetry must be enabled and configured for the Grafana instance. Please refer to [this section](
{{< relref "../../setup-grafana/configure-grafana/#tracingopentelemetry" >}}) for more information.

As of Grafana 9.5.0, plugins tracing must be enabled manually on a per-plugin basis, by specifying `tracing = true` in the plugin's config section:

```ini
[plugin.myorg-myplugin-datasource]
tracing = true
```

## Implementing tracing in your plugin

> **Note:** Make sure you are using at least grafana-plugins-sdk-go v0.157.0. You can update with `go get -u github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-sdk-go`.

When OpenTelemetry tracing is enabled on the main Grafana instance and tracing is enabeld for a plugin,
the Opentelemetry endpoint address and propagation format will be passed to the plugin during startup,
which will be used to configure a global tracer.

<ol>
<li>The global tracer is configured automatically if you use <code>datasource.Manage</code> or <code>app.Manage</code> to run your plugin.

This also allows you to specify custom attributes for the default tracer:

```go
func main() {
    if err := datasource.Manage("MY_PLUGIN_ID", plugin.NewDatasource, datasource.ManageOpts{
        TracingOpts: tracing.Opts{
            // Optional custom attributes attached to the tracer's resource.
            // The tracer will already have some SDK and runtime ones pre-populated.
            CustomAttributes: []attribute.KeyValue{
                attribute.String("my_plugin.my_attribute", "custom value"),
            },
        },
    }); err != nil {
        log.DefaultLogger.Error(err.Error())
        os.Exit(1)
    }
}
```

If you are not using automatic instance management, you have to configure the global tracer manually by calling:

```go
backend.SetupTracer("MY_PLUGIN_ID", tracing.Opts{})
```

</li>

<li>
Once tracing is configured (either manually or by calling <code>Manage</code>), you can access the global tracer with:

```go
tracing.DefaultTracer()
```

this returns an [OpenTelemetry trace.Tracer](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace#Tracer), and can be used to create spans.

For example:

```go
func (d *Datasource) query(ctx context.Context, pCtx backend.PluginContext, query backend.DataQuery) (backend.DataResponse, error) {
    ctx, span := tracing.DefaultTracer().Start(
        ctx,
        "query processing",
        trace.WithAttributes(
            attribute.String("query.ref_id", query.RefID),
            attribute.String("query.type", query.QueryType),
            attribute.Int64("query.max_data_points", query.MaxDataPoints),
            attribute.Int64("query.interval_ms", query.Interval.Milliseconds()),
            attribute.Int64("query.time_range.from", query.TimeRange.From.Unix()),
            attribute.Int64("query.time_range.to", query.TimeRange.To.Unix()),
        ),
    )
    defer span.End()
    log.DefaultLogger.Debug("query", "traceID", trace.SpanContextFromContext(ctx).TraceID())
}
```

Please refer to the [OpenTelemetry Go SDK](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel) for in-depth documentation on all the features provided by OpenTelemetry.

If tracing is disabled in Grafana, `backend.DefaultTracer()` returns a no-op tracer.

</li>

</ol>

### Tracing GRPC calls

A new span is created automatically for each GRPC call (`QueryData`, `CheckHealth`, etc), both on Grafana's side and
on the plugin's side.

This also injects the trace context into the `context.Context` passed to those methods.

This allows you to retrieve the [trace.SpanContext](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace#SpanContext) by using `tracing.SpanContextFromContext` by passing the original `context.Context` to it:

```go
func (d *Datasource) query(ctx context.Context, pCtx backend.PluginContext, query backend.DataQuery) (backend.DataResponse, error) {
    spanCtx := trace.SpanContextFromContext(ctx)
    traceID := spanCtx.TraceID()

    // ...
}
```

### Tracing HTTP requests

When tracing is enabled, a `TracingMiddleware` is also added to the default middleware stack to all http clients created
using the `httpclient.New` or `httpclient.NewProvider`, unless custom middlewares are specified.

This middleware creates spans for each outgoing HTTP request and provides some useful attributes and events related to the HTTP request.

## Complete plugin example

You can refer to the [datasource-http-backend plugin example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/tree/main/examples/datasource-http-backend) for a complete example of a plugin that has full tracing support.
