packages/grafana-eslint-rules/README.md, before:

# Grafana ESLint Rules

This package contains custom eslint rules for use within the Grafana codebase only. They're extremely specific to our codebase, and are of little use to anyone else. They're not published to NPM, and are consumed through the Yarn workspace.

## Rules

### `@grafana/no-aria-label-selectors`

Require aria-label JSX properties to not include selectors from the `@grafana/e2e-selectors` package.

Previously we hijacked the aria-label property to use as E2E selectors as an attempt to "improve accessibility" while making this easier for testing. However, this lead to many elements having poor, verbose, and unnecessary labels.

Now, we prefer using data-testid for E2E selectors.

### `@grafana/no-border-radius-literal`

Check if border-radius theme tokens are used.

To improve the consistency across Grafana we encourage devs to use tokens instead of custom values. In this case, we want the `borderRadius` to use the appropriate token such as `theme.shape.radius.default`, `theme.shape.radius.pill` or `theme.shape.radius.circle`.

### `@grafana/theme-token-usage`

Used to find all instances of `theme` tokens being used in the codebase and emit the counts as metrics. Should **not** be used as an actual lint rule!

Commit message:

add lint rule for no-unreduced-motion

packages/grafana-eslint-rules/README.md, after:

# Grafana ESLint Rules

This package contains custom eslint rules for use within the Grafana codebase only. They're extremely specific to our codebase, and are of little use to anyone else. They're not published to NPM, and are consumed through the Yarn workspace.

## Rules

### `no-aria-label-selectors`

Require aria-label JSX properties to not include selectors from the `@grafana/e2e-selectors` package.

Previously we hijacked the aria-label property to use as E2E selectors as an attempt to "improve accessibility" while making this easier for testing. However, this lead to many elements having poor, verbose, and unnecessary labels.

Now, we prefer using data-testid for E2E selectors.

### `no-border-radius-literal`

Check if border-radius theme tokens are used.

To improve the consistency across Grafana we encourage devs to use tokens instead of custom values. In this case, we want the `borderRadius` to use the appropriate token such as `theme.shape.radius.default`, `theme.shape.radius.pill` or `theme.shape.radius.circle`.

### `no-unreduced-motion`

Avoid direct use of `animation*` or `transition*` properties.

To account for users with motion sensitivities, these should always be wrapped in a [`prefers-reduced-motion`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) media query.

`@grafana/ui` exposes a `handledReducedMotion` utility function that can be used to handle this.

### `theme-token-usage`

Used to find all instances of `theme` tokens being used in the codebase and emit the counts as metrics. Should **not** be used as an actual lint rule!
