docs/sources/getting-started/build-first-dashboard.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../guides/getting_started/
  - ../guides/gettingstarted/
  - getting-started/
description: Learn how to get started with Grafana by adding a preconfigured dashboard.
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Build your first dashboard
weight: 200
---

# Build your first dashboard

This topic helps you get started with Grafana and build your first dashboard using the built-in `Grafana` data source. To learn more about Grafana, refer to [Introduction to Grafana]({{< relref "../introduction" >}}).

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Grafana also offers a [free account with Grafana Cloud](/signup/cloud/connect-account?pg=gsdocs) to help getting started even easier and faster. You can install Grafana to self-host or get a free Grafana Cloud account.
{{% /admonition %}}

#### Install Grafana

Grafana can be installed on many different operating systems. For a list of the minimum hardware and software requirements, as well as instructions on installing Grafana, refer to [Install Grafana]({{< relref "../setup-grafana/installation" >}}).

#### Sign in to Grafana

To sign in to Grafana for the first time:

1. Open your web browser and go to http://localhost:3000/.

   The default HTTP port that Grafana listens to is `3000` unless you have configured a different port.

1. On the sign-in page, enter `admin` for both the username and password.
1. Click **Sign in**.

   If successful, you'll see a prompt to change the password.

1. Click **OK** on the prompt and change your password.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
We strongly recommend that you change the default administrator password.
{{% /admonition %}}

#### Create a dashboard

If you've already set up a data source that you know how to query, refer to [Create a dashboard]({{< relref "../dashboards/build-dashboards/create-dashboard" >}}) instead.

To create your first dashboard using the built-in `-- Grafana --` data source:

1. Click **Dashboards** in the left-side menu.
1. On the Dashboards page, click **New** and select **New Dashboard** from the drop-down menu.
1. On the dashboard, click **+ Add visualization**.

   ![Empty dashboard state](/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/empty-dashboard-10.2.png)

1. In the dialog box that opens, click `-- Grafana --`:

   {{< figure class="float-right"  src="/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/screenshot-data-source-selector-10.0.png" max-width="800px" alt="Select data source dialog box" >}}

   This configures your [query]({{< relref "../panels-visualizations/query-transform-data#add-a-query" >}}) and generates the Random Walk dashboard.

1. Click the Refresh dashboard icon to query the data source.

   ![Refresh dashboard icon](/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/screenshot-refresh-dashboard-9.5.png)

1. When you've finished editing your panel, click **Save** to save the dashboard.

   Alternatively, click **Apply** if you want to see your changes applied to the dashboard first. Then click the save icon in the dashboard header.

1. Add a descriptive title for the dashboard, or have Grafana create one using [generative AI features](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/dashboards/manage-dashboards#set-up-generative-ai-features-for-dashboards), and then click **Save**.

Congratulations, you have created your first dashboard and it's displaying results.

#### Next steps

Continue to experiment with what you have built, try the [explore workflow]({{< relref "../explore" >}}) or another visualization feature. Refer to [Data sources]({{< relref "../datasources" >}}) for a list of supported data sources and instructions on how to [add a data source]({{< relref "../datasources#add-a-data-source" >}}). The following topics will be of interest to you:

- [Panels and visualizations]({{< relref "../panels-visualizations" >}})
- [Dashboards]({{< relref "../dashboards" >}})
- [Keyboard shortcuts]({{< relref "../dashboards/use-dashboards#keyboard-shortcuts" >}})
- [Plugins](/grafana/plugins?orderBy=weight&direction=asc)

##### Admins

The following topics are of interest to Grafana server admin users:

- [Grafana configuration]({{< relref "../setup-grafana/configure-grafana" >}})
- [Authentication]({{< relref "../setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication" >}})
- [User permissions and roles]({{< relref "../administration/roles-and-permissions" >}})
- [Provisioning]({{< relref "../administration/provisioning" >}})
- [Grafana CLI]({{< relref "../cli" >}})

Commit message:

Added back to dashboard and exit edit info

docs/sources/getting-started/build-first-dashboard.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../guides/getting_started/
  - ../guides/gettingstarted/
  - getting-started/
description: Learn how to get started with Grafana by adding a preconfigured dashboard.
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Build your first dashboard
weight: 200
---

# Build your first dashboard

This topic helps you get started with Grafana and build your first dashboard using the built-in `Grafana` data source. To learn more about Grafana, refer to [Introduction to Grafana]({{< relref "../introduction" >}}).

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Grafana also offers a [free account with Grafana Cloud](/signup/cloud/connect-account?pg=gsdocs) to help getting started even easier and faster. You can install Grafana to self-host or get a free Grafana Cloud account.
{{% /admonition %}}

#### Install Grafana

Grafana can be installed on many different operating systems. For a list of the minimum hardware and software requirements, as well as instructions on installing Grafana, refer to [Install Grafana]({{< relref "../setup-grafana/installation" >}}).

#### Sign in to Grafana

To sign in to Grafana for the first time:

1. Open your web browser and go to http://localhost:3000/.

   The default HTTP port that Grafana listens to is `3000` unless you have configured a different port.

1. On the sign-in page, enter `admin` for both the username and password.
1. Click **Sign in**.

   If successful, you'll see a prompt to change the password.

1. Click **OK** on the prompt and change your password.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
We strongly recommend that you change the default administrator password.
{{% /admonition %}}

#### Create a dashboard

If you've already set up a data source that you know how to query, refer to [Create a dashboard]({{< relref "../dashboards/build-dashboards/create-dashboard" >}}) instead.

To create your first dashboard using the built-in `-- Grafana --` data source:

1. Click **Dashboards** in the main menu.
1. On the **Dashboards** page, click **New** and select **New Dashboard** from the drop-down menu.
1. On the dashboard, click **+ Add visualization**.

   ![Empty dashboard state](/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/empty-dashboard-10.2.png)

1. In the dialog box that opens, click `-- Grafana --`:

   {{< figure class="float-right"  src="/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/screenshot-data-source-selector-10.0.png" max-width="800px" alt="Select data source dialog box" >}}

   This configures your [query]({{< relref "../panels-visualizations/query-transform-data#add-a-query" >}}) and generates the Random Walk dashboard.

1. Click **Refresh** to query the data source.
1. When you've finished editing your panel, click **Save dashboard**.

   Alternatively, click **Back to dashboard** if you want to see your changes applied to the dashboard first. Then click **Save dashboard** when you're ready.

1. Add a descriptive title for the dashboard, or have Grafana create one using [generative AI features](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/dashboards/manage-dashboards#set-up-generative-ai-features-for-dashboards), and then click **Save**.
1. Click **Back to dashboard** and then **Exit edit**.

Congratulations, you have created your first dashboard and it's displaying results.

#### Next steps

Continue to experiment with what you have built, try the [explore workflow]({{< relref "../explore" >}}) or another visualization feature. Refer to [Data sources]({{< relref "../datasources" >}}) for a list of supported data sources and instructions on how to [add a data source]({{< relref "../datasources#add-a-data-source" >}}). The following topics will be of interest to you:

- [Panels and visualizations]({{< relref "../panels-visualizations" >}})
- [Dashboards]({{< relref "../dashboards" >}})
- [Keyboard shortcuts]({{< relref "../dashboards/use-dashboards#keyboard-shortcuts" >}})
- [Plugins](/grafana/plugins?orderBy=weight&direction=asc)

##### Admins

The following topics are of interest to Grafana server admin users:

- [Grafana configuration]({{< relref "../setup-grafana/configure-grafana" >}})
- [Authentication]({{< relref "../setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication" >}})
- [User permissions and roles]({{< relref "../administration/roles-and-permissions" >}})
- [Provisioning]({{< relref "../administration/provisioning" >}})
- [Grafana CLI]({{< relref "../cli" >}})
