docs/sources/datasources/prometheus/configure-prometheus-data-source.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../data-sources/prometheus/
  - ../features/datasources/prometheus/
description: Guide for configuring Prometheus in Grafana
keywords:
  - grafana
  - prometheus
  - guide
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Configure Prometheus
title: Configure the Prometheus data source
weight: 200
---

# Configure Prometheus

Grafana ships with built-in support for Prometheus. If you are new to Prometheus the following documentation will help you get started working with Prometheus and Grafana:

- [What is Prometheus?][intro-to-prometheus]
- [Prometheus data model](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/)
- [Getting started](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started/)

## Configure the data source

To add the Prometheus data source, complete the following steps:

1. Click **Connections** in the left-side menu.
1. Under **Connections**, click **Add new connection**.
1. Enter `Prometheus` in the search bar.
1. Select **Prometheus data source**.
1. Click **Create a Prometheus data source** in the upper right.

You will be taken to the **Settings** tab where you will set up your Prometheus configuration.

## Configuration options

The following is a list of configuration options for Prometheus.

The first option to configure is the name of your connection:

- **Name** - The data source name. This is how you refer to the data source in panels and queries. Examples: prometheus-1, prom-metrics.

- **Default** - Toggle to select as the default name in dashboard panels. When you go to a dashboard panel this will be the default selected data source.

### HTTP section

- **URL** - The URL of your Prometheus server. If your Prometheus server is local, use `<http://localhost:9090>`. If it is on a server within a network, this is the URL with port where you are running Prometheus. Example: `<http://prometheus.example.orgname:9090>`.

- **Allowed cookies** - Specify cookies by name that should be forwarded to the data source. The Grafana proxy deletes all forwarded cookies by default.

- **Timeout** - The HTTP request timeout. This must be in seconds. There is no default, so this setting is up to you.

### Auth section

There are several authentication methods you can choose in the Authentication section.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}

Use TLS (Transport Layer Security) for an additional layer of security when working with Prometheus. For information on setting up TLS encryption with Prometheus see [Securing Prometheus API and UI Endpoints Using TLS Encryption](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/tls-encryption/). You must add TLS settings to your Prometheus configuration file **prior** to setting these options in Grafana.

{{% /admonition %}}

- **Basic authentication** - The most common authentication method. Use your `data source` user name and `data source` password to connect.

- **With credentials** - Toggle on to enable credentials such as cookies or auth headers to be sent with cross-site requests.

- **TLS client authentication** - Toggle on to use client authentication. When enabled, add the `Server name`, `Client cert` and `Client key`. The client provides a certificate that is validated by the server to establish the client's trusted identity. The client key encrypts the data between client and server.

- **With CA cert** - Authenticate with a CA certificate. Follow the instructions of the CA (Certificate Authority) to download the certificate file.

- **Skip TLS verify** - Toggle on to bypass TLS certificate validation.

- **Forward OAuth identity** - Forward the OAuth access token (and also the OIDC ID token if available) of the user querying the data source.

### Custom HTTP headers

- **Header** - Add a custom header. This allows custom headers to be passed based on the needs of your Prometheus instance.

- **Value** - The value of the header.

## Additional settings

Following are additional configuration options.

### Alerting

- **Manage alerts via Alerting UI** - Toggle to enable `Alertmanager` integration for this data source.

### Interval behavior

- **Scrape interval** - Set this to the typical scrape and evaluation interval configured in Prometheus. The default is `15s`.

- **Query timeout** - The default is `60s`.

### Query editor

- **Default editor** - Sets a default editor. Options are `Builder` or `Code`. For information on query editor types see [Prometheus query editor]({{< relref "./query-editor" >}}).

- **Disable metrics lookup** - Toggle on to disable the metrics chooser and metric/label support in the query field's autocomplete. This helps if you have performance issues with large Prometheus instances.

### Performance

- **Prometheus type** - The type of your Prometheus server. There are four options: `Prometheus`, `Cortex`, `Thanos`, `Mimir`.

- **Version** Select the version you are using. Once the Prometheus type has been selected, a list of versions auto-populates using the Prometheus [buildinfo](https://semver.org/) API. The `Cortex` Prometheus type does not support this API so you will need to manually add the version.

- **Incremental querying (beta)** - Changes the default behavior of relative queries to always request fresh data from the Prometheus instance. Enable this option to decrease database and network load.

### Other

- **Custom query parameters** - Add custom parameters to the Prometheus query URL. For example `timeout`, `partial_response`, `dedup`, or `max_source_resolution`. Multiple parameters should be concatenated together with an '&amp;'.

- **HTTP method** - Use either `POST` or `GET` HTTP method to query your data source. `POST` is the recommended and pre-selected method as it allows bigger queries. Change to `GET` if you have a Prometheus version older than 2.1 or if `POST` requests are restricted in your network.

### Exemplars

Support for exemplars is available only for the Prometheus data source. If this is your first time working with exemplars see [Introduction to exemplars][exemplars]. An exemplar is a specific trace representative of measurement taken in a given time interval.

- **Internal link** - Toggle on to enable an internal link. When enabled, reveals the data source selector. Select the backend tracing data store for your exemplar data.

- **URL** - _(Visible if you **disable** `Internal link`)_ Defines the external link's URL trace backend. You can interpolate the value from the field by using the [`${__value.raw}` macro][configure-data-links-value-variables].

- **Data source** - _(Visible if you **enable** `Internal link`)_ The data source the exemplar will navigate to.

- **URL label** - Adds a custom display label to override the value of the `Label name` field.

- **Label name** - The name of the field in the `labels` object used to obtain the traceID property.

- **Remove exemplar link** - Click to remove existing links.

{{% docs/reference %}}
[configure-data-links-value-variables]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-data-links#value-variables"
[configure-data-links-value-variables]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-data-links#value-variables"

[exemplars]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/fundamentals/exemplars"
[exemplars]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/fundamentals/exemplars"

[intro-to-prometheus]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/fundamentals/intro-to-prometheus"
[intro-to-prometheus]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/fundamentals/intro-to-prometheus"
{{% /docs/reference %}}

Commit message:

[v10.4.x] [docs/sources/datasources] Replace docs/reference shortcode with ref URIs (#88066)

docs/sources/datasources/prometheus/configure-prometheus-data-source.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../data-sources/prometheus/
  - ../features/datasources/prometheus/
description: Guide for configuring Prometheus in Grafana
keywords:
  - grafana
  - prometheus
  - guide
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Configure Prometheus
title: Configure the Prometheus data source
weight: 200
refs:
  configure-data-links-value-variables:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-data-links/#value-variables
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-data-links/#value-variables
  intro-to-prometheus:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/fundamentals/intro-to-prometheus/
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/fundamentals/intro-to-prometheus/
  exemplars:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/fundamentals/exemplars/
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/fundamentals/exemplars/
---

# Configure Prometheus

Grafana ships with built-in support for Prometheus. If you are new to Prometheus the following documentation will help you get started working with Prometheus and Grafana:

- [What is Prometheus?](ref:intro-to-prometheus)
- [Prometheus data model](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/)
- [Getting started](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started/)

## Configure the data source

To add the Prometheus data source, complete the following steps:

1. Click **Connections** in the left-side menu.
1. Under **Connections**, click **Add new connection**.
1. Enter `Prometheus` in the search bar.
1. Select **Prometheus data source**.
1. Click **Create a Prometheus data source** in the upper right.

You will be taken to the **Settings** tab where you will set up your Prometheus configuration.

## Configuration options

The following is a list of configuration options for Prometheus.

The first option to configure is the name of your connection:

- **Name** - The data source name. This is how you refer to the data source in panels and queries. Examples: prometheus-1, prom-metrics.

- **Default** - Toggle to select as the default name in dashboard panels. When you go to a dashboard panel this will be the default selected data source.

### HTTP section

- **URL** - The URL of your Prometheus server. If your Prometheus server is local, use `<http://localhost:9090>`. If it is on a server within a network, this is the URL with port where you are running Prometheus. Example: `<http://prometheus.example.orgname:9090>`.

- **Allowed cookies** - Specify cookies by name that should be forwarded to the data source. The Grafana proxy deletes all forwarded cookies by default.

- **Timeout** - The HTTP request timeout. This must be in seconds. There is no default, so this setting is up to you.

### Auth section

There are several authentication methods you can choose in the Authentication section.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}

Use TLS (Transport Layer Security) for an additional layer of security when working with Prometheus. For information on setting up TLS encryption with Prometheus see [Securing Prometheus API and UI Endpoints Using TLS Encryption](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/tls-encryption/). You must add TLS settings to your Prometheus configuration file **prior** to setting these options in Grafana.

{{% /admonition %}}

- **Basic authentication** - The most common authentication method. Use your `data source` user name and `data source` password to connect.

- **With credentials** - Toggle on to enable credentials such as cookies or auth headers to be sent with cross-site requests.

- **TLS client authentication** - Toggle on to use client authentication. When enabled, add the `Server name`, `Client cert` and `Client key`. The client provides a certificate that is validated by the server to establish the client's trusted identity. The client key encrypts the data between client and server.

- **With CA cert** - Authenticate with a CA certificate. Follow the instructions of the CA (Certificate Authority) to download the certificate file.

- **Skip TLS verify** - Toggle on to bypass TLS certificate validation.

- **Forward OAuth identity** - Forward the OAuth access token (and also the OIDC ID token if available) of the user querying the data source.

### Custom HTTP headers

- **Header** - Add a custom header. This allows custom headers to be passed based on the needs of your Prometheus instance.

- **Value** - The value of the header.

## Additional settings

Following are additional configuration options.

### Alerting

- **Manage alerts via Alerting UI** - Toggle to enable `Alertmanager` integration for this data source.

### Interval behavior

- **Scrape interval** - Set this to the typical scrape and evaluation interval configured in Prometheus. The default is `15s`.

- **Query timeout** - The default is `60s`.

### Query editor

- **Default editor** - Sets a default editor. Options are `Builder` or `Code`. For information on query editor types see [Prometheus query editor]({{< relref "./query-editor" >}}).

- **Disable metrics lookup** - Toggle on to disable the metrics chooser and metric/label support in the query field's autocomplete. This helps if you have performance issues with large Prometheus instances.

### Performance

- **Prometheus type** - The type of your Prometheus server. There are four options: `Prometheus`, `Cortex`, `Thanos`, `Mimir`.

- **Version** Select the version you are using. Once the Prometheus type has been selected, a list of versions auto-populates using the Prometheus [buildinfo](https://semver.org/) API. The `Cortex` Prometheus type does not support this API so you will need to manually add the version.

- **Incremental querying (beta)** - Changes the default behavior of relative queries to always request fresh data from the Prometheus instance. Enable this option to decrease database and network load.

### Other

- **Custom query parameters** - Add custom parameters to the Prometheus query URL. For example `timeout`, `partial_response`, `dedup`, or `max_source_resolution`. Multiple parameters should be concatenated together with an '&amp;'.

- **HTTP method** - Use either `POST` or `GET` HTTP method to query your data source. `POST` is the recommended and pre-selected method as it allows bigger queries. Change to `GET` if you have a Prometheus version older than 2.1 or if `POST` requests are restricted in your network.

### Exemplars

Support for exemplars is available only for the Prometheus data source. If this is your first time working with exemplars see [Introduction to exemplars](ref:exemplars). An exemplar is a specific trace representative of measurement taken in a given time interval.

- **Internal link** - Toggle on to enable an internal link. When enabled, reveals the data source selector. Select the backend tracing data store for your exemplar data.

- **URL** - _(Visible if you **disable** `Internal link`)_ Defines the external link's URL trace backend. You can interpolate the value from the field by using the [`${__value.raw}` macro](ref:configure-data-links-value-variables).

- **Data source** - _(Visible if you **enable** `Internal link`)_ The data source the exemplar will navigate to.

- **URL label** - Adds a custom display label to override the value of the `Label name` field.

- **Label name** - The name of the field in the `labels` object used to obtain the traceID property.

- **Remove exemplar link** - Click to remove existing links.
