docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/dashboard-list/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../../features/panels/dashlist/
  - ../../panels/visualizations/dashboard-list-panel/
  - ../../reference/dashlist/
  - ../../visualizations/dashboard-list-panel/
keywords:
  - grafana
  - dashboard list
  - documentation
  - panel
  - dashlist
title: Dashboard list
weight: 300
---

# Dashboard list

The dashboard list visualization allows you to display dynamic links to other dashboards. The list can be configured to use starred dashboards, recently viewed dashboards, a search query, and dashboard tags.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v45/dashboard-list-panels.png" max-width="850px">}}

On each dashboard load, this panel queries the dashboard list, always providing the most up-to-date results.

## Options

Use these options to refine your visualization.

- **Starred -** Display starred dashboards in alphabetical order.
- **Recently viewed -** Display recently viewed dashboards in alphabetical order.
- **Search -** Display dashboards by search query or tags. You must enter at least one value in **Query** or **Tags**. For the **Query** and **Tags** fields. Variable interpolation is supported, for example,`$my_var` or `${my_var}`.
- **Show headings -** The chosen list selection (Starred, Recently viewed, Search) is shown as a heading.
- **Max items -** Sets the maximum number of items to list per section. For example, if you left this at the default value of 10 and displayed Starred and Recently viewed dashboards, then the panel would display up to 20 total dashboards, ten in each section.

## Search

These options only apply if the **Search** option is selected.

- **Query -** Enter the query you want to search by. Queries are case-insensitive, and partial values are accepted.
- **Folder -** Select the dashboard folders that you want to display.
- **Tags -** Here is where you enter your tags you want to search by. Note that existing tags will not appear as you type, and they _are_ case sensitive.

> **Note:** When multiple tags and strings appear, the dashboard list displays those matching _all_ conditions.

Commit message:

DashlistPanel: Add options to include time range and variable values (#65757)

docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/dashboard-list/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../../features/panels/dashlist/
  - ../../panels/visualizations/dashboard-list-panel/
  - ../../reference/dashlist/
  - ../../visualizations/dashboard-list-panel/
keywords:
  - grafana
  - dashboard list
  - documentation
  - panel
  - dashlist
title: Dashboard list
weight: 300
---

# Dashboard list

The dashboard list visualization allows you to display dynamic links to other dashboards. The list can be configured to use starred dashboards, recently viewed dashboards, a search query, and dashboard tags.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v45/dashboard-list-panels.png" max-width="850px">}}

On each dashboard load, this panel queries the dashboard list, always providing the most up-to-date results.

## Options

Use these options to refine your visualization.

- **Include current time range -** Select this option to propagate the time range of the current dashboard to the dashboard links. When the user clicks a link, the linked dashboard opens with the indicated time range already set.
- **Include current template variable values -** Select this option to include template variables currently used as query parameters in a link. When the user clicks the link, any matching templates in the linked dashboard are set to the values from the link. Learn more about [Dashboard URL variables]({{< relref "../../../dashboards/build-dashboards/create-dashboard-url-variables/" >}}).
- **Starred -** Display starred dashboards in alphabetical order.
- **Recently viewed -** Display recently viewed dashboards in alphabetical order.
- **Search -** Display dashboards by search query or tags. You must enter at least one value in **Query** or **Tags**. For the **Query** and **Tags** fields. Variable interpolation is supported, for example,`$my_var` or `${my_var}`.
- **Show headings -** The chosen list selection (Starred, Recently viewed, Search) is shown as a heading.
- **Max items -** Sets the maximum number of items to list per section. For example, if you left this at the default value of 10 and displayed Starred and Recently viewed dashboards, then the panel would display up to 20 total dashboards, ten in each section.

## Search

These options only apply if the **Search** option is selected.

- **Query -** Enter the query you want to search by. Queries are case-insensitive, and partial values are accepted.
- **Folder -** Select the dashboard folders that you want to display.
- **Tags -** Here is where you enter your tags you want to search by. Note that existing tags will not appear as you type, and they _are_ case sensitive.

> **Note:** When multiple tags and strings appear, the dashboard list displays those matching _all_ conditions.
