docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/alerting-migration/migration-api.md, before:

---
description: Use the Grafana Alerting API import tool to convert your datasource managed alert rules into Grafana managed alert rules
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Import data source-managed alert rules with Grafana Mimirtool
menuTitle: API alert rules import
weight: 601
refs:
---

# Import data source-managed alert rules with Grafana Mimirtool

You can convert data source-managed alert rules to Grafana-managed alert rules with the Grafana import tool in the Grafana user interface, or you can convert them with the Grafana Mimirtool command-line tool. This guide tells you how to use Mimirtool to import your data source-managed alert rules.

## Before you begin

The `grafanaManagedRecordingRulesDatasources` [feature flag](/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/feature-toggles/) needs to be enabled to use this feature.

To import data source-managed alert rules with Grafana Mimirtool, you need to have the Grafana Mimirtool command-line tool installed.

You need a service account the following [RBAC permissions](/docs/grafana/latest/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/):

- Alerting: Rules Reader
- Alerting: Rules Writer
- Alerting: Set provisioning status
- Datasources: Reader
- Folders: Creator
- Folders: Reader
- Folders: Writer

You also need to create a service account token with your service account. Refer to the [documentation for more information on service accounts and service account tokens](/docs/grafana/latest/administration/service-accounts/)

## How it works

When data source-managed alert rules are converted to Grafana-managed alert rules, the following are applied to the Grafana-managed alert rules:

- All rules are given `rule_query_offset` offset value of 1m.  
  Grafana OSS and Enterprise can configure this value in their conf:
  ```
  [unified_alerting.prometheus_conversion]
  rule_query_offset = 1m
  ```
  If this value is set explicitly in a rule group, that value takes precedence over the configuration setting.
- The `missing_series_evals_to_resolve` is set to 1 for the new rules.
- The newly created rules are given unique UIDs.  
  If you don't want the UID to be automatically generated, you can specify a specific UID with the `__grafana_alert_rule_uid__` label.

## Import alert rules with Mimirtool or coretextool

You can use either [Mimirtool](/docs/mimir/latest/manage/tools/mimirtool/) or [`cortextool`](https://github.com/grafana/cortex-tools) (version `0.11.3` or later) to import your alert rules. For more information about Mimirtool commands, see the [Mimirtool documentation](/docs/mimir/latest/manage/tools/mimirtool/#rules).

To convert your alert rules, use the following command prompt substituting the your URL and your service account token as indicated, followed by your intended Mimirtool command.

```bash
MIMIR_ADDRESS=https://<Grafana URL>.grafana-dev.net/api/convert/ MIMIR_AUTH_TOKEN=<your token ID> MIMIR_TENANT_ID=1
```

For coretextool, you need to set `--backend=loki` to import Loki alert rules. For example:

```bash
CORTEX_ADDRESS=<grafana url>/api/convert/ CORTEX_AUTH_TOKEN=<your token> CORTEX_TENANT_ID=1 cortextool rules --backend=loki list
```

Headers can be passed to the `mimirtool` or `coretextool` via `--extra-headers`.

For more information about the Rule API points and examples of Mimirtool commands, see the [Mimir HTTP API documentation](/docs/mimir/latest/references/http-api/#ruler-rules:~:text=config/v1/rules-,Get%20rule%20groups%20by%20namespace,DELETE%20%3Cprometheus%2Dhttp%2Dprefix%3E/config/v1/rules/%7Bnamespace%7D,-Delete%20tenant%20configuration) for more information about the Rule API points and examples of Mimirtool commands.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
To use the `mimirtool rules sync` command, you need to set the `--concurrency` parameter to `1` (`--concurrency=1`). The parameter defaults to 8, which may cause the API to return errors.
{{< /admonition >}}

### Compatible endpoints

The following are compatible API endpoints:

**GET**

```
GET /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules - Get all rule groups across all namespaces
GET /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/<NamespaceTitle> - Get rule groups in a specific namespace
GET /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/<NamespaceTitle>/<Group> - Get a single rule group

```

**POST**

```
POST /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules - Create/update multiple rule groups across multiple namespaces
POST /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/<NamespaceTitle> - Create/update a single rule group in a namespace
```

Post rules also require the following header:
When posting rules:
`X-Grafana-Alerting-Datasource-UID` - Supply the UID of the data source to use for queries.

**Delete**

```
DELETE /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/{NamespaceTitle} - Delete all alert rules in a namespace
DELETE /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/{NamespaceTitle}/{Group} - Delete a specific rule group
```

**Optional Headers**

Additional configuration headers for more granular import control include the following:

- `X-Grafana-Alerting-Recording-Rules-Paused` - Set to "true" to import recording rules in paused state.
- `X-Grafana-Alerting-Alert-Rules-Paused` - Set to "true" to import alert rules in paused state.
- `X-Grafana-Alerting-Target-Datasource-UID` - Enter the UID of the target data source.
- `X-Grafana-Alerting-Folder-UID` - Enter the UID of the target destination folder for imported rules.

Commit message:

docs(alerting): Add a note about sequential evaluation

docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/alerting-migration/migration-api.md, after:

---
description: Use the Grafana Alerting API import tool to convert your datasource managed alert rules into Grafana managed alert rules
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Import data source-managed alert rules with Grafana Mimirtool
menuTitle: API alert rules import
weight: 601
refs:
---

# Import data source-managed alert rules with Grafana Mimirtool

You can convert data source-managed alert rules to Grafana-managed alert rules with the Grafana import tool in the Grafana user interface, or you can convert them with the Grafana Mimirtool command-line tool. This guide tells you how to use Mimirtool to import your data source-managed alert rules.

## Before you begin

The `grafanaManagedRecordingRulesDatasources` [feature flag](/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/feature-toggles/) needs to be enabled to use this feature.

To import data source-managed alert rules with Grafana Mimirtool, you need to have the Grafana Mimirtool command-line tool installed.

You need a service account the following [RBAC permissions](/docs/grafana/latest/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/):

- Alerting: Rules Reader
- Alerting: Rules Writer
- Alerting: Set provisioning status
- Datasources: Reader
- Folders: Creator
- Folders: Reader
- Folders: Writer

You also need to create a service account token with your service account. Refer to the [documentation for more information on service accounts and service account tokens](/docs/grafana/latest/administration/service-accounts/)

## How it works

When data source-managed alert rules are converted to Grafana-managed alert rules, the following are applied to the Grafana-managed alert rules:

- All rules are given `rule_query_offset` offset value of 1m.  
  Grafana OSS and Enterprise can configure this value in their conf:
  ```
  [unified_alerting.prometheus_conversion]
  rule_query_offset = 1m
  ```
  If this value is set explicitly in a rule group, that value takes precedence over the configuration setting.
- The `missing_series_evals_to_resolve` is set to 1 for the new rules.
- The imported rules are evaluated sequentially within each rule group, mirroring Prometheus behavior.
  Sequential evaluation applies only to rules imported with the migration UI or API and only while they remain read‑only in the UI (displayed as "Provisioned").
  If you import rules with the `X-Disable-Provenance: true` header or via the regular provisioning API, they behave like regular Grafana
  alert rules and are evaluated in parallel.
- The newly created rules are given unique UIDs.  
  If you don't want the UID to be automatically generated, you can specify a specific UID with the `__grafana_alert_rule_uid__` label.

## Import alert rules with Mimirtool or cortextool

You can use either [Mimirtool](/docs/mimir/latest/manage/tools/mimirtool/) or [`cortextool`](https://github.com/grafana/cortex-tools) (version `0.11.3` or later) to import your alert rules. For more information about Mimirtool commands, see the [Mimirtool documentation](/docs/mimir/latest/manage/tools/mimirtool/#rules).

To convert your alert rules, use the following command prompt substituting the your URL and your service account token as indicated, followed by your intended Mimirtool command.

```bash
MIMIR_ADDRESS=https://<Grafana URL>.grafana-dev.net/api/convert/ MIMIR_AUTH_TOKEN=<your token ID> MIMIR_TENANT_ID=1
```

For cortextool, you need to set `--backend=loki` to import Loki alert rules. For example:

```bash
CORTEX_ADDRESS=<grafana url>/api/convert/ CORTEX_AUTH_TOKEN=<your token> CORTEX_TENANT_ID=1 cortextool rules --backend=loki list
```

Headers can be passed to the `mimirtool` or `cortextool` via `--extra-headers`.

For more information about the Rule API points and examples of Mimirtool commands, see the [Mimir HTTP API documentation](/docs/mimir/latest/references/http-api/#ruler-rules:~:text=config/v1/rules-,Get%20rule%20groups%20by%20namespace,DELETE%20%3Cprometheus%2Dhttp%2Dprefix%3E/config/v1/rules/%7Bnamespace%7D,-Delete%20tenant%20configuration) for more information about the Rule API points and examples of Mimirtool commands.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
To use the `mimirtool rules sync` command, you need to set the `--concurrency` parameter to `1` (`--concurrency=1`). The parameter defaults to 8, which may cause the API to return errors.
{{< /admonition >}}

### Compatible endpoints

The following are compatible API endpoints:

**GET**

```
GET /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules - Get all rule groups across all namespaces
GET /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/<NamespaceTitle> - Get rule groups in a specific namespace
GET /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/<NamespaceTitle>/<Group> - Get a single rule group

```

**POST**

```
POST /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules - Create/update multiple rule groups across multiple namespaces
POST /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/<NamespaceTitle> - Create/update a single rule group in a namespace
```

Post rules also require the following header:
When posting rules:
`X-Grafana-Alerting-Datasource-UID` - Supply the UID of the data source to use for queries.

**Delete**

```
DELETE /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/{NamespaceTitle} - Delete all alert rules in a namespace
DELETE /convert/prometheus/config/v1/rules/{NamespaceTitle}/{Group} - Delete a specific rule group
```

**Optional Headers**

Additional configuration headers for more granular import control include the following:

- `X-Grafana-Alerting-Recording-Rules-Paused` - Set to "true" to import recording rules in paused state.
- `X-Grafana-Alerting-Alert-Rules-Paused` - Set to "true" to import alert rules in paused state.
- `X-Grafana-Alerting-Target-Datasource-UID` - Enter the UID of the target data source.
- `X-Grafana-Alerting-Folder-UID` - Enter the UID of the target destination folder for imported rules.
