docs/sources/alerting/rules.md, before:

+++
title = "Alerting Engine & Rules Guide"
description = "Configuring Alert Rules"
keywords = ["grafana", "alerting", "guide", "rules"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Engine & Rules"
parent = "alerting"
weight = 1
+++

# Alerting Engine & Rules Guide

> Alerting is only available in Grafana v4.0 and above.

## Introduction

{{< imgbox max-width="40%" img="/img/docs/v4/drag_handles_gif.gif" caption="Alerting overview" >}}

Alerting in Grafana allows you to attach rules to your dashboard panels. When you save the dashboard
Grafana will extract the alert rules into a separate alert rule storage and schedule them for evaluation.

In the alert tab of the graph panel you can configure how often the alert rule should be evaluated
and the conditions that need to be met for the alert to change state and trigger its
[notifications]({{< relref "notifications.md" >}}).

## Execution

The alert rules are evaluated in the Grafana backend in a scheduler and query execution engine that is part
of core Grafana. Only some data soures are supported right now. They include `Graphite`, `Prometheus`,
`InfluxDB` and `OpenTSDB`.

### Clustering

We have not implemented clustering yet. So if you run multiple instances of grafana-server
you have to make sure [execute_alerts]({{< relref "installation/configuration.md#alerting" >}})
is true on only one instance or otherwise you will get duplicated notifications.

<div class="clearfix"></div>

## Rule Config

{{< imgbox max-width="40%" img="/img/docs/v4/alerting_conditions.png" caption="Alerting Conditions" >}}

Currently only the graph panel supports alert rules but this will be added to the **Singlestat** and **Table**
panels as well in a future release.

### Name & Evaluation interval

Here you can specify the name of the alert rule and how often the scheduler should evaluate the alert rule.

### Conditions

Currently the only condition type that exists is a `Query` condition that allows you to
specify a query letter, time range and an aggregation function.


### Query condition example

```sql
avg() OF query(A, 5m, now) IS BELOW 14
```

- `avg()` Controls how the values for **each** serie should be reduced to a value that can be compared against the threshold. Click on the function to change it to another aggregation function.
- `query(A, 5m, now)`  The letter defines what query to execute from the **Metrics** tab. The second two parameters defines the time range, `5m, now` means 5 minutes from now to now. You can also do `10m, now-2m` to define a time range that will be 10 minutes from now to 2 minutes from now. This is useful if you want to ignore the last 2 minutes of data.
- `IS BELOW 14`  Defines the type of threshold and the threshold value.  You can click on `IS BELOW` to change the type of threshold.

The query used in an alert rule cannot contain any template variables. Currently we only support `AND` and `OR` operators between conditions and they are executed serially.
For example, we have 3 conditions in the following order:
*condition:A(evaluates to: TRUE) OR condition:B(evaluates to: FALSE) AND condition:C(evaluates to: TRUE)*
so the result will be calculated as ((TRUE OR FALSE) AND TRUE) = TRUE.

We plan to add other condition types in the future, like `Other Alert`, where you can include the state
of another alert in your conditions, and `Time Of Day`.

#### Multiple Series

If a query returns multiple series then the aggregation function and threshold check will be evaluated for each series.
What Grafana does not do currently is track alert rule state **per series**. This has implications that is exemplified
in the scenario below.

- Alert condition with query that returns 2 series: **server1** and **server2**
- **server1** series cause the alert rule to fire and switch to state `Alerting`
- Notifications are sent out with message:  _load peaking (server1)_
- In a subsequence evaluation of the same alert rule the **server2** series also cause the alert rule to fire
- No new notifications are sent as the alert rule is already in state `Alerting`.

So as you can see from the above scenario Grafana will not send out notifications when other series cause the alert
to fire if the rule already is in state `Alerting`. To improve support for queries that return multiple series
we plan to track state **per series** in a future release.

### No Data / Null values

Below you condition you can configure how the rule evaluation engine should handle queries that return no data or only null valued
data.

No Data Option | Description
------------ | -------------
NoData | Set alert rule state to `NoData`
Alerting | Set alert rule state to `Alerting`
Keep Last State | Keep the current alert rule state, what ever it is.

### Execution errors or timeouts

The last option is how to handle execution or timeout errors.

Error or timeout option | Description
------------ | -------------
Alerting | Set alert rule state to `Alerting`
Keep Last State | Keep the current alert rule state, what ever it is.

If you an unreliable time series store that where queries sometime timeout or fail randomly you can set this option
t `Keep Last State` to basically ignore them.

## Notifications

In alert tab you can also specify alert rule notifications along with a detailed messsage about the alert rule.
The message can contain anything, information about how you might solve the issue, link to runbook etc.

The actual notifications are configured and shared between multiple alerts. Read the
[Notifications]({{< relref "notifications.md" >}}) guide for how to configure and setup notifications.

## Alert State History & Annotations

Alert state changes are recorded in the internal annotation table in Grafana's database. The state changes
are visualized as annotations in the alert rule's graph panel. You can also go into the `State history`
submenu in the alert tab to view & clear state history.

## Troubleshooting

{{< imgbox max-width="40%" img="/img/docs/v4/alert_test_rule.png" caption="Test Rule" >}}

First level of troubleshooting you can do is hit the **Test Rule** button. You will get result back that you can expand
to the point where you can see the raw data that was returned form your query.

Further troubleshooting can also be done by inspecting the grafana-server log. If it's not an error or for some reason
the log does not say anything you can enable debug logging for some relevant components. This is done
in Grafana's ini config file.

Example showing loggers that could be relevant when troubleshooting alerting.

```ini
[log]
filters = alerting.scheduler:debug \
          alerting.engine:debug \
          alerting.resultHandler:debug \
          alerting.evalHandler:debug \
          alerting.evalContext:debug \
          alerting.extractor:debug \
          alerting.notifier:debug \
          alerting.notifier.slack:debug \
          alerting.notifier.pagerduty:debug \
          alerting.notifier.email:debug \
          alerting.notifier.webhook:debug \
          tsdb.graphite:debug \
          tsdb.prometheus:debug \
          tsdb.opentsdb:debug \
          tsdb.influxdb:debug \
```

If you want to log raw query sent to your TSDB and raw response in log you also have to set grafana.ini option `app_mode` to
`development`.

Commit message:

docs: fixes #8972. Note on clustering and alerting.

docs/sources/alerting/rules.md, after:

+++
title = "Alerting Engine & Rules Guide"
description = "Configuring Alert Rules"
keywords = ["grafana", "alerting", "guide", "rules"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Engine & Rules"
parent = "alerting"
weight = 1
+++

# Alerting Engine & Rules Guide

> Alerting is only available in Grafana v4.0 and above.

## Introduction

{{< imgbox max-width="40%" img="/img/docs/v4/drag_handles_gif.gif" caption="Alerting overview" >}}

Alerting in Grafana allows you to attach rules to your dashboard panels. When you save the dashboard
Grafana will extract the alert rules into a separate alert rule storage and schedule them for evaluation.

In the alert tab of the graph panel you can configure how often the alert rule should be evaluated
and the conditions that need to be met for the alert to change state and trigger its
[notifications]({{< relref "notifications.md" >}}).

## Execution

The alert rules are evaluated in the Grafana backend in a scheduler and query execution engine that is part
of core Grafana. Only some data soures are supported right now. They include `Graphite`, `Prometheus`,
`InfluxDB` and `OpenTSDB`.

### Clustering

Currently alerting supports a limited form of high availability. Since v4.2.0 of Grafana, alert notifications are deduped when running multiple servers. This means all alerts are executed on every server but no duplicate alert notifications are sent due to the deduping logic. Proper load balancing of alerts will be introduced in the future.

<div class="clearfix"></div>

## Rule Config

{{< imgbox max-width="40%" img="/img/docs/v4/alerting_conditions.png" caption="Alerting Conditions" >}}

Currently only the graph panel supports alert rules but this will be added to the **Singlestat** and **Table**
panels as well in a future release.

### Name & Evaluation interval

Here you can specify the name of the alert rule and how often the scheduler should evaluate the alert rule.

### Conditions

Currently the only condition type that exists is a `Query` condition that allows you to
specify a query letter, time range and an aggregation function.


### Query condition example

```sql
avg() OF query(A, 5m, now) IS BELOW 14
```

- `avg()` Controls how the values for **each** serie should be reduced to a value that can be compared against the threshold. Click on the function to change it to another aggregation function.
- `query(A, 5m, now)`  The letter defines what query to execute from the **Metrics** tab. The second two parameters defines the time range, `5m, now` means 5 minutes from now to now. You can also do `10m, now-2m` to define a time range that will be 10 minutes from now to 2 minutes from now. This is useful if you want to ignore the last 2 minutes of data.
- `IS BELOW 14`  Defines the type of threshold and the threshold value.  You can click on `IS BELOW` to change the type of threshold.

The query used in an alert rule cannot contain any template variables. Currently we only support `AND` and `OR` operators between conditions and they are executed serially.
For example, we have 3 conditions in the following order:
*condition:A(evaluates to: TRUE) OR condition:B(evaluates to: FALSE) AND condition:C(evaluates to: TRUE)*
so the result will be calculated as ((TRUE OR FALSE) AND TRUE) = TRUE.

We plan to add other condition types in the future, like `Other Alert`, where you can include the state
of another alert in your conditions, and `Time Of Day`.

#### Multiple Series

If a query returns multiple series then the aggregation function and threshold check will be evaluated for each series.
What Grafana does not do currently is track alert rule state **per series**. This has implications that is exemplified
in the scenario below.

- Alert condition with query that returns 2 series: **server1** and **server2**
- **server1** series cause the alert rule to fire and switch to state `Alerting`
- Notifications are sent out with message:  _load peaking (server1)_
- In a subsequence evaluation of the same alert rule the **server2** series also cause the alert rule to fire
- No new notifications are sent as the alert rule is already in state `Alerting`.

So as you can see from the above scenario Grafana will not send out notifications when other series cause the alert
to fire if the rule already is in state `Alerting`. To improve support for queries that return multiple series
we plan to track state **per series** in a future release.

### No Data / Null values

Below you condition you can configure how the rule evaluation engine should handle queries that return no data or only null valued
data.

No Data Option | Description
------------ | -------------
NoData | Set alert rule state to `NoData`
Alerting | Set alert rule state to `Alerting`
Keep Last State | Keep the current alert rule state, what ever it is.

### Execution errors or timeouts

The last option is how to handle execution or timeout errors.

Error or timeout option | Description
------------ | -------------
Alerting | Set alert rule state to `Alerting`
Keep Last State | Keep the current alert rule state, what ever it is.

If you an unreliable time series store that where queries sometime timeout or fail randomly you can set this option
t `Keep Last State` to basically ignore them.

## Notifications

In alert tab you can also specify alert rule notifications along with a detailed messsage about the alert rule.
The message can contain anything, information about how you might solve the issue, link to runbook etc.

The actual notifications are configured and shared between multiple alerts. Read the
[Notifications]({{< relref "notifications.md" >}}) guide for how to configure and setup notifications.

## Alert State History & Annotations

Alert state changes are recorded in the internal annotation table in Grafana's database. The state changes
are visualized as annotations in the alert rule's graph panel. You can also go into the `State history`
submenu in the alert tab to view & clear state history.

## Troubleshooting

{{< imgbox max-width="40%" img="/img/docs/v4/alert_test_rule.png" caption="Test Rule" >}}

First level of troubleshooting you can do is hit the **Test Rule** button. You will get result back that you can expand
to the point where you can see the raw data that was returned form your query.

Further troubleshooting can also be done by inspecting the grafana-server log. If it's not an error or for some reason
the log does not say anything you can enable debug logging for some relevant components. This is done
in Grafana's ini config file.

Example showing loggers that could be relevant when troubleshooting alerting.

```ini
[log]
filters = alerting.scheduler:debug \
          alerting.engine:debug \
          alerting.resultHandler:debug \
          alerting.evalHandler:debug \
          alerting.evalContext:debug \
          alerting.extractor:debug \
          alerting.notifier:debug \
          alerting.notifier.slack:debug \
          alerting.notifier.pagerduty:debug \
          alerting.notifier.email:debug \
          alerting.notifier.webhook:debug \
          tsdb.graphite:debug \
          tsdb.prometheus:debug \
          tsdb.opentsdb:debug \
          tsdb.influxdb:debug \
```

If you want to log raw query sent to your TSDB and raw response in log you also have to set grafana.ini option `app_mode` to
`development`.
