docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/configure-tracing/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../../troubleshooting/diagnostics/
  - ../enable-diagnostics/
description: Learn how to configure profiling and tracing so that you can troubleshoot Grafana.
keywords:
  - grafana
  - troubleshooting
  - documentation
  - guide
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Configure profiling and tracing
title: Configure profiling and tracing to troubleshoot Grafana
weight: 200
---

# Configure profiling and tracing to troubleshoot Grafana

You can set up the `grafana-server` process to enable certain diagnostics when it starts. This can be useful
when investigating certain performance problems. It's _not_ recommended to have these enabled by default.

## Turn on profiling and collect profiles

The `grafana-server` can be started with the command-line option `-profile` to enable profiling, `-profile-addr` to override the default HTTP address (`localhost`), and
`-profile-port` to override the default HTTP port (`6060`) where the `pprof` debugging endpoints are available. Further, `-profile-contention` allows to control contention profiling (report of all goroutine blocking and mutex contention events) which when enabled adds more overhead and is more suitable to enable only when needed, default `true` for backward compatibility reasons. Running Grafana with profiling enabled and without contention profiling enabled should only add a fraction of overhead and is suitable for [continuous profiling](https://grafana.com/oss/pyroscope/).

Enable profiling without contention profiling:

```bash
./grafana server -profile -profile-addr=0.0.0.0 -profile-port=8080 -profile-contention=false
```

Enable profiling with contention profiling:

```bash
./grafana server -profile -profile-addr=0.0.0.0 -profile-port=8080
```

Note that `pprof` debugging endpoints are served on a different port than the Grafana HTTP server. Check what debugging endpoints are available by browsing `http://<profile-addr><profile-port>/debug/pprof`.

There's some additional [godeltaprof](https://github.com/grafana/pyroscope-go/tree/main/godeltaprof) endpoints available which is more suitable in a continuous profiling scenario. These endpoints are `/debug/pprof/delta_heap`, `/debug/pprof/delta_block`, `/debug/pprof/delta_mutex`.

You can configure or override profiling settings using environment variables:

```bash
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_ENABLED=true
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_ADDR=0.0.0.0
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_PORT=8080
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_CONTENTION=false
```

In general, you use the [Go command pprof](https://golang.org/cmd/pprof/) to both collect and analyze profiling data. You can also use [curl](https://curl.se/) or similar to collect profiles which could be convenient in environments where you don't have the Go/pprof command available. Next, some usage examples of using curl and pprof to collect and analyze memory and CPU profiles.

**Analyzing high memory usage/memory leaks:**

When experiencing high memory usage or potential memory leaks it's useful to collect several heap profiles and later when analyzing, compare them. It's a good idea to wait some time, e.g. 30 seconds, between collecting each profile to allow memory consumption to increase.

```bash
curl http://<profile-addr>:<profile-port>/debug/pprof/heap > heap1.pprof
sleep 30
curl http://<profile-addr>:<profile-port>/debug/pprof/heap > heap2.pprof
```

You can then use pprof tool to compare two heap profiles:

```bash
go tool pprof -http=localhost:8081 --base heap1.pprof heap2.pprof
```

**Analyzing high CPU usage:**

When experiencing high CPU usage it's suggested to collect CPU profiles over a period of time, e.g. 30 seconds.

```bash
curl 'http://<profile-addr>:<profile-port>/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30' > profile.pprof
```

You can then use pprof tool to analyze the collected CPU profile:

```bash
go tool pprof -http=localhost:8081 profile.pprof
```

## Use tracing

The `grafana-server` can be started with the arguments `-tracing` to enable tracing and `-tracing-file` to override the default trace file (`trace.out`) where trace result is written to. For example:

```bash
./grafana server -tracing -tracing-file=/tmp/trace.out
```

You can configure or override profiling settings using environment variables:

```bash
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_TRACING_ENABLED=true
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_TRACING_FILE=/tmp/trace.out
```

View the trace in a web browser (Go required to be installed):

```bash
go tool trace <trace file>
2019/11/24 22:20:42 Parsing trace...
2019/11/24 22:20:42 Splitting trace...
2019/11/24 22:20:42 Opening browser. Trace viewer is listening on http://127.0.0.1:39735
```

For more information about how to analyze trace files, refer to [Go command trace](https://golang.org/cmd/trace/).

Commit message:

change contention flag to block and mutex rates

docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/configure-tracing/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../../troubleshooting/diagnostics/
  - ../enable-diagnostics/
description: Learn how to configure profiling and tracing so that you can troubleshoot Grafana.
keywords:
  - grafana
  - troubleshooting
  - documentation
  - guide
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Configure profiling and tracing
title: Configure profiling and tracing to troubleshoot Grafana
weight: 200
---

# Configure profiling and tracing to troubleshoot Grafana

You can set up the `grafana-server` process to enable certain diagnostics when it starts. This can be useful
when investigating certain performance problems. It's _not_ recommended to have these enabled by default.

## Turn on profiling and collect profiles

The `grafana-server` can be started with the command-line option `-profile` to enable profiling, `-profile-addr` to override the default HTTP address (`localhost`), and
`-profile-port` to override the default HTTP port (`6060`) where the `pprof` debugging endpoints are available. Further, `-profile-block-rate` controls the fraction of goroutine blocking events that are reported in the blocking profile, default `1` (100%) for backward compatibility reasons, and `-profile-mutex-rate` controls the fraction of mutex contention events that are reported in the mutex profile, default 0 (0%). The higher the fraction the more overhead it adds to normal operations. Running Grafana with profiling enabled and without block and mutex profiling enabled should only add a fraction of overhead and is suitable for [continuous profiling](https://grafana.com/oss/pyroscope/). Adding a small fraction of block and mutex profiling, such as 10-5 (10%-20%) should in general be fine.

Enable profiling:

```bash
./grafana server -profile -profile-addr=0.0.0.0 -profile-port=8080
```

Enable profiling with block and mutex profiling enabled with a fraction of 20%:

```bash
./grafana server -profile -profile-addr=0.0.0.0 -profile-port=8080 -profile-block-rate=5 -profile-mutex-rate=5
```

Note that `pprof` debugging endpoints are served on a different port than the Grafana HTTP server. Check what debugging endpoints are available by browsing `http://<profile-addr><profile-port>/debug/pprof`.

There's some additional [godeltaprof](https://github.com/grafana/pyroscope-go/tree/main/godeltaprof) endpoints available which is more suitable in a continuous profiling scenario. These endpoints are `/debug/pprof/delta_heap`, `/debug/pprof/delta_block`, `/debug/pprof/delta_mutex`.

You can configure or override profiling settings using environment variables:

```bash
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_ENABLED=true
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_ADDR=0.0.0.0
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_PORT=8080
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_BLOCK_RATE=5
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_PROFILING_MUTEX_RATE=5
```

In general, you use the [Go command pprof](https://golang.org/cmd/pprof/) to both collect and analyze profiling data. You can also use [curl](https://curl.se/) or similar to collect profiles which could be convenient in environments where you don't have the Go/pprof command available. Next, some usage examples of using curl and pprof to collect and analyze memory and CPU profiles.

**Analyzing high memory usage/memory leaks:**

When experiencing high memory usage or potential memory leaks it's useful to collect several heap profiles and later when analyzing, compare them. It's a good idea to wait some time, e.g. 30 seconds, between collecting each profile to allow memory consumption to increase.

```bash
curl http://<profile-addr>:<profile-port>/debug/pprof/heap > heap1.pprof
sleep 30
curl http://<profile-addr>:<profile-port>/debug/pprof/heap > heap2.pprof
```

You can then use pprof tool to compare two heap profiles:

```bash
go tool pprof -http=localhost:8081 --base heap1.pprof heap2.pprof
```

**Analyzing high CPU usage:**

When experiencing high CPU usage it's suggested to collect CPU profiles over a period of time, e.g. 30 seconds.

```bash
curl 'http://<profile-addr>:<profile-port>/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30' > profile.pprof
```

You can then use pprof tool to analyze the collected CPU profile:

```bash
go tool pprof -http=localhost:8081 profile.pprof
```

## Use tracing

The `grafana-server` can be started with the arguments `-tracing` to enable tracing and `-tracing-file` to override the default trace file (`trace.out`) where trace result is written to. For example:

```bash
./grafana server -tracing -tracing-file=/tmp/trace.out
```

You can configure or override profiling settings using environment variables:

```bash
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_TRACING_ENABLED=true
export GF_DIAGNOSTICS_TRACING_FILE=/tmp/trace.out
```

View the trace in a web browser (Go required to be installed):

```bash
go tool trace <trace file>
2019/11/24 22:20:42 Parsing trace...
2019/11/24 22:20:42 Splitting trace...
2019/11/24 22:20:42 Opening browser. Trace viewer is listening on http://127.0.0.1:39735
```

For more information about how to analyze trace files, refer to [Go command trace](https://golang.org/cmd/trace/).
