docs/sources/panels-visualizations/_index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - dashboards/configure-panels-visualizations/
  - features/panels/panels/
  - panels/
keywords:
  - grafana
  - configure
  - panels
  - visualizations
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Panels and visualizations
title: Panels and visualizations
description: Learn about and configure panels and visualizations
weight: 80
---

# Panels and visualizations

The _panel_ is the basic visualization building block in Grafana.
Each panel has a query editor specific to the data source selected in the panel.
The query editor allows you to build a query that returns the data you want to visualize.

There are a wide variety of styling and formatting options for each panel.
Panels can be dragged, dropped, and resized to rearrange them on the dashboard.

Before you add a panel, ensure that you have configured a data source.

- For more information about adding and managing data sources as an administrator, refer to [Data source management][].
- For details about using specific data sources, refer to [Data sources][].

This section includes the following sub topics:

{{< section >}}

{{% docs/reference %}}
[Data source management]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/data-source-management"
[Data source management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/data-source-management"

[Data sources]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/datasources"
[Data sources]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/datasources"
{{% /docs/reference %}}

Commit message:

corrected the minor details
Making minor changes after the PR merged on Data sources and Data source administration.

https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/83712

docs/sources/panels-visualizations/_index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - dashboards/configure-panels-visualizations/
  - features/panels/panels/
  - panels/
keywords:
  - grafana
  - configure
  - panels
  - visualizations
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Panels and visualizations
title: Panels and visualizations
description: Learn about and configure panels and visualizations
weight: 80
---

# Panels and visualizations

The _panel_ is the basic visualization building block in Grafana.
Each panel has a query editor specific to the data source selected in the panel.
The query editor allows you to build a query that returns the data you want to visualize.

There are a wide variety of styling and formatting options for each panel.
Panels can be dragged, dropped, and resized to rearrange them on the dashboard.

Before you add a panel, ensure that you have configured a data source.

- For details about using data sources, refer to [Data sources][].

- For more information about managing data sources as an administrator, refer to [Data source management][].
  
  {{% admonition type="note" %}}
  Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud(/docs/grafana-cloud).
  {{% /admonition %}}


This section includes the following sub topics:

{{< section >}}

{{% docs/reference %}}
[Data source management]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/data-source-management"
[Data source management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/data-source-management"

[Data sources]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/datasources"
[Data sources]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/datasources"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
