docs/sources/guides/whats-new-in-v4-5.md, before:

+++
title = "What's New in Grafana v4.5"
description = "Feature & improvement highlights for Grafana v4.5"
keywords = ["grafana", "new", "documentation", "4.5"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Version 4.5"
identifier = "v4.5"
parent = "whatsnew"
weight = -4
+++

# What's New in Grafana v4.5

## Hightlights

### New prometheus query editor

The new query editor has full syntax highlighting. As well as auto complete for metrics, functions, and range vectors.

![](/img/docs/v45/new_prom_editor_1.png)

There is also integrated function docs right from the query editor!

![](/img/docs/v45/new_prom_editor_2.png)

### Elasticsearch: Add ad-hoc filters from the table panel
![](/img/docs/v45/elastic_ad_hoc_filters.png)

### Table cell links!
Create column styles that turn cells into links that use the value in the cell  (or other other row values) to generate a url to another dashboard or system:
![](/img/docs/v45/table_links.jpg)

## Changelog

### New Features

* **Table panel**: Render cell values as links that can have an url template that uses variables from current table row. [#3754](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/3754)
* **Elasticsearch**: Add ad hoc filters directly by clicking values in table panel [#8052](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8052).
* **MySQL**: New rich query editor with syntax highlighting
* **Prometheus**: New rich query editor with syntax highlighting, metric & range auto complete and integrated function docs. [#5117](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/5117)

### Enhancements

* **GitHub OAuth**: Support for GitHub organizations with 100+ teams. [#8846](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8846), thx [@skwashd](https://github.com/skwashd)
* **Graphite**: Calls to Graphite api /metrics/find now include panel or dashboad time range (from & until) in most cases, [#8055](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8055)
* **Graphite**: Added new graphite 1.0 functions, available if you set version to 1.0.x in data source settings. New Functions: mapSeries, reduceSeries, isNonNull, groupByNodes, offsetToZero, grep, weightedAverage, removeEmptySeries, aggregateLine, averageOutsidePercentile, delay, exponentialMovingAverage, fallbackSeries, integralByInterval, interpolate, invert, linearRegression, movingMin, movingMax, movingSum, multiplySeriesWithWildcards, pow, powSeries, removeBetweenPercentile, squareRoot, timeSlice, closes [#8261](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8261)
- **Elasticsearch**: Ad-hoc filters now use query phrase match filters instead of term filters, works on non keyword/raw fields [#9095](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/9095).

### Breaking change

* **InfluxDB/Elasticsearch**: The panel & data source option named "Group by time interval" is now named "Min time interval" and does now always define a lower limit for the auto group by time. Without having to use `>` prefix (that prefix still works). This should in theory have close to zero actual impact on existing dashboards. It does mean that if you used this setting to define a hard group by time interval of, say "1d", if you zoomed to a time range wide enough the time range could increase above the "1d" range as the setting is now always considered a lower limit.

This option is now rennamed (and moved to Options sub section above your queries):
![image|519x120](upload://ySjHOVpavV6yk9LHQxL9nq2HIsT.png)

Datas source selection & options & help are now above your metric queries.
![image|690x179](upload://5kNDxKgMz1BycOKgG3iWYLsEVXv.png)

### Minor Changes

* **InfluxDB**: Change time range filter for absolute time ranges to be inclusive instead of exclusive [#8319](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8319), thx [@Oxydros](https://github.com/Oxydros)
* **InfluxDB**: Added paranthesis around tag filters in queries [#9131](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/9131)

## Bug Fixes

* **Modals**: Maintain scroll position after opening/leaving modal [#8800](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8800)
* **Templating**: You cannot select data source variables as data source for other template variables [#7510](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/7510)

Commit message:

docs: uppdated getting started with images and text, added info on query inspector to version45 and trouble shooting

docs/sources/guides/whats-new-in-v4-5.md, after:

+++
title = "What's New in Grafana v4.5"
description = "Feature & improvement highlights for Grafana v4.5"
keywords = ["grafana", "new", "documentation", "4.5"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Version 4.5"
identifier = "v4.5"
parent = "whatsnew"
weight = -4
+++

# What's New in Grafana v4.5

## Hightlights

### New prometheus query editor

The new query editor has full syntax highlighting. As well as auto complete for metrics, functions, and range vectors.

![](/img/docs/v45/new_prom_editor_1.png)

There is also integrated function docs right from the query editor!

![](/img/docs/v45/new_prom_editor_2.png)

### Elasticsearch: Add ad-hoc filters from the table panel
![](/img/docs/v45/elastic_ad_hoc_filters.png)

### Table cell links!
Create column styles that turn cells into links that use the value in the cell  (or other other row values) to generate a url to another dashboard or system:
![](/img/docs/v45/table_links.jpg)

### Query Inspector
Query Inspector is a new feature that shows query requests and responses. This can be helpful if a graph is not shown or shows something very different than what you expected.
More information [here](https://community.grafana.com/t/using-grafanas-query-inspector-to-troubleshoot-issues/2630).
![](/img/docs/v45/query_inspector.png)

## Changelog

### New Features

* **Table panel**: Render cell values as links that can have an url template that uses variables from current table row. [#3754](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/3754)
* **Elasticsearch**: Add ad hoc filters directly by clicking values in table panel [#8052](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8052).
* **MySQL**: New rich query editor with syntax highlighting
* **Prometheus**: New rich query editor with syntax highlighting, metric & range auto complete and integrated function docs. [#5117](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/5117)

### Enhancements

* **GitHub OAuth**: Support for GitHub organizations with 100+ teams. [#8846](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8846), thx [@skwashd](https://github.com/skwashd)
* **Graphite**: Calls to Graphite api /metrics/find now include panel or dashboad time range (from & until) in most cases, [#8055](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8055)
* **Graphite**: Added new graphite 1.0 functions, available if you set version to 1.0.x in data source settings. New Functions: mapSeries, reduceSeries, isNonNull, groupByNodes, offsetToZero, grep, weightedAverage, removeEmptySeries, aggregateLine, averageOutsidePercentile, delay, exponentialMovingAverage, fallbackSeries, integralByInterval, interpolate, invert, linearRegression, movingMin, movingMax, movingSum, multiplySeriesWithWildcards, pow, powSeries, removeBetweenPercentile, squareRoot, timeSlice, closes [#8261](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8261)
- **Elasticsearch**: Ad-hoc filters now use query phrase match filters instead of term filters, works on non keyword/raw fields [#9095](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/9095).

### Breaking change

* **InfluxDB/Elasticsearch**: The panel & data source option named "Group by time interval" is now named "Min time interval" and does now always define a lower limit for the auto group by time. Without having to use `>` prefix (that prefix still works). This should in theory have close to zero actual impact on existing dashboards. It does mean that if you used this setting to define a hard group by time interval of, say "1d", if you zoomed to a time range wide enough the time range could increase above the "1d" range as the setting is now always considered a lower limit.

This option is now rennamed (and moved to Options sub section above your queries):
![image|519x120](upload://ySjHOVpavV6yk9LHQxL9nq2HIsT.png)

Datas source selection & options & help are now above your metric queries.
![image|690x179](upload://5kNDxKgMz1BycOKgG3iWYLsEVXv.png)

### Minor Changes

* **InfluxDB**: Change time range filter for absolute time ranges to be inclusive instead of exclusive [#8319](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8319), thx [@Oxydros](https://github.com/Oxydros)
* **InfluxDB**: Added paranthesis around tag filters in queries [#9131](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/9131)

## Bug Fixes

* **Modals**: Maintain scroll position after opening/leaving modal [#8800](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/8800)
* **Templating**: You cannot select data source variables as data source for other template variables [#7510](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/7510)
