docs/sources/developers/http_api/alerting_notification_channels.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../../http_api/alerting_notification_channels/
canonical: /docs/grafana/latest/developers/http_api/alerting_notification_channels/
description: Grafana Alerting Notification Channel HTTP API
keywords:
  - grafana
  - http
  - documentation
  - api
  - alerting
  - alerts
  - notifications
title: 'Alerting Notification Channels HTTP API '
---

# Alerting Notification Channels API

This page documents the Alerting Notification Channels API.

## Identifier (id) vs unique identifier (uid)

The identifier (id) of a notification channel is an auto-incrementing numeric value and is only unique per Grafana install.

The unique identifier (uid) of a notification channel can be used for uniquely identify a notification channel between
multiple Grafana installs. It's automatically generated if not provided when creating a notification channel. The uid
allows having consistent URLs for accessing notification channels and when syncing notification channels between multiple
Grafana installations, refer to [alert notification channel provisioning]({{< relref "/docs/grafana/latest/administration/provisioning#alert-notification-channels" >}}).

The uid can have a maximum length of 40 characters.

## Get all notification channels

Returns all notification channels that the authenticated user has permission to view.

`GET /api/alert-notifications`

**Example request**:

```http
GET /api/alert-notifications HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "uid": "team-a-email-notifier",
    "name": "Team A",
    "type": "email",
    "isDefault": false,
    "sendReminder": false,
    "disableResolveMessage": false,
    "settings": {
      "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
    },
    "created": "2018-04-23T14:44:09+02:00",
    "updated": "2018-08-20T15:47:49+02:00"
  }
]

```

## Get all notification channels (lookup)

Returns all notification channels, but with less detailed information. Accessible by any authenticated user and is mainly used by providing alert notification channels in Grafana UI when configuring alert rule.

`GET /api/alert-notifications/lookup`

**Example request**:

```http
GET /api/alert-notifications/lookup HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "uid": "000000001",
    "name": "Test",
    "type": "email",
    "isDefault": false
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "uid": "000000002",
    "name": "Slack",
    "type": "slack",
    "isDefault": false
  }
]

```

## Get notification channel by uid

`GET /api/alert-notifications/uid/:uid`

Returns the notification channel given the notification channel uid.

**Example request**:

```http
GET /api/alert-notifications/uid/team-a-email-notifier HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "team-a-email-notifier",
  "name": "Team A",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": false,
  "disableResolveMessage": false,
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2018-04-23T14:44:09+02:00",
  "updated": "2018-08-20T15:47:49+02:00"
}
```

## Get notification channel by id

`GET /api/alert-notifications/:id`

Returns the notification channel given the notification channel id.

**Example request**:

```http
GET /api/alert-notifications/1 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "team-a-email-notifier",
  "name": "Team A",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": false,
  "disableResolveMessage": false,
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2018-04-23T14:44:09+02:00",
  "updated": "2018-08-20T15:47:49+02:00"
}
```

## Create notification channel

You can find the full list of [supported notifiers](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v8.5/alerting/old-alerting/notifications/) on the alert notifiers page.

`POST /api/alert-notifications`

**Example request**:

```http
POST /api/alert-notifications HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "uid": "new-alert-notification", // optional
  "name": "new alert notification",  //Required
  "type":  "email", //Required
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": false,
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  }
}
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "new-alert-notification",
  "name": "new alert notification",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": false,
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2018-04-23T14:44:09+02:00",
  "updated": "2018-08-20T15:47:49+02:00"
}
```

## Update notification channel by uid

`PUT /api/alert-notifications/uid/:uid`

Updates an existing notification channel identified by uid.

**Example request**:

```http
PUT /api/alert-notifications/uid/cIBgcSjkk HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "uid": "new-alert-notification", // optional
  "name": "new alert notification",  //Required
  "type":  "email", //Required
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": true,
  "frequency": "15m",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  }
}
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "new-alert-notification",
  "name": "new alert notification",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": true,
  "frequency": "15m",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2017-01-01 12:34",
  "updated": "2017-01-01 12:34"
}
```

## Update notification channel by id

`PUT /api/alert-notifications/:id`

Updates an existing notification channel identified by id.

**Example request**:

```http
PUT /api/alert-notifications/1 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "new-alert-notification", // optional
  "name": "new alert notification",  //Required
  "type":  "email", //Required
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": true,
  "frequency": "15m",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  }
}
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "new-alert-notification",
  "name": "new alert notification",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": true,
  "frequency": "15m",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2017-01-01 12:34",
  "updated": "2017-01-01 12:34"
}
```

## Delete alert notification by uid

`DELETE /api/alert-notifications/uid/:uid`

Deletes an existing notification channel identified by uid.

**Example request**:

```http
DELETE /api/alert-notifications/uid/team-a-email-notifier HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "message": "Notification deleted"
}
```

## Delete alert notification by id

`DELETE /api/alert-notifications/:id`

Deletes an existing notification channel identified by id.

**Example request**:

```http
DELETE /api/alert-notifications/1 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "message": "Notification deleted"
}
```

## Test notification channel

Sends a test notification message for the given notification channel type and settings.
You can find the full list of [supported notifiers](/alerting/notifications/#all-supported-notifier) at the alert notifiers page.

`POST /api/alert-notifications/test`

**Example request**:

```http
POST /api/alert-notifications/test HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "type":  "email",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  }
}
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "message": "Test notification sent"
}
```

Commit message:

Docs: adds legacy wording to api docs (#66937)
adds legacy wording to api docs

docs/sources/developers/http_api/alerting_notification_channels.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../../http_api/alerting_notification_channels/
canonical: /docs/grafana/latest/developers/http_api/alerting_notification_channels/
description: Grafana Alerting Notification Channel HTTP API
keywords:
  - grafana
  - http
  - documentation
  - api
  - alerting
  - alerts
  - notifications
title: 'Alerting Notification Channels HTTP API '
---

# Legacy Alerting Notification Channels API

> **Note:** Starting with v9.0, the Legacy Alerting Notification Channels API is deprecated. It will be removed in a future release.

This page documents the Alerting Notification Channels API.

## Identifier (id) vs unique identifier (uid)

The identifier (id) of a notification channel is an auto-incrementing numeric value and is only unique per Grafana install.

The unique identifier (uid) of a notification channel can be used for uniquely identify a notification channel between
multiple Grafana installs. It's automatically generated if not provided when creating a notification channel. The uid
allows having consistent URLs for accessing notification channels and when syncing notification channels between multiple
Grafana installations, refer to [alert notification channel provisioning]({{< relref "/docs/grafana/latest/administration/provisioning#alert-notification-channels" >}}).

The uid can have a maximum length of 40 characters.

## Get all notification channels

Returns all notification channels that the authenticated user has permission to view.

`GET /api/alert-notifications`

**Example request**:

```http
GET /api/alert-notifications HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "uid": "team-a-email-notifier",
    "name": "Team A",
    "type": "email",
    "isDefault": false,
    "sendReminder": false,
    "disableResolveMessage": false,
    "settings": {
      "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
    },
    "created": "2018-04-23T14:44:09+02:00",
    "updated": "2018-08-20T15:47:49+02:00"
  }
]

```

## Get all notification channels (lookup)

Returns all notification channels, but with less detailed information. Accessible by any authenticated user and is mainly used by providing alert notification channels in Grafana UI when configuring alert rule.

`GET /api/alert-notifications/lookup`

**Example request**:

```http
GET /api/alert-notifications/lookup HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "uid": "000000001",
    "name": "Test",
    "type": "email",
    "isDefault": false
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "uid": "000000002",
    "name": "Slack",
    "type": "slack",
    "isDefault": false
  }
]

```

## Get notification channel by uid

`GET /api/alert-notifications/uid/:uid`

Returns the notification channel given the notification channel uid.

**Example request**:

```http
GET /api/alert-notifications/uid/team-a-email-notifier HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "team-a-email-notifier",
  "name": "Team A",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": false,
  "disableResolveMessage": false,
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2018-04-23T14:44:09+02:00",
  "updated": "2018-08-20T15:47:49+02:00"
}
```

## Get notification channel by id

`GET /api/alert-notifications/:id`

Returns the notification channel given the notification channel id.

**Example request**:

```http
GET /api/alert-notifications/1 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "team-a-email-notifier",
  "name": "Team A",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": false,
  "disableResolveMessage": false,
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2018-04-23T14:44:09+02:00",
  "updated": "2018-08-20T15:47:49+02:00"
}
```

## Create notification channel

You can find the full list of [supported notifiers](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v8.5/alerting/old-alerting/notifications/) on the alert notifiers page.

`POST /api/alert-notifications`

**Example request**:

```http
POST /api/alert-notifications HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "uid": "new-alert-notification", // optional
  "name": "new alert notification",  //Required
  "type":  "email", //Required
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": false,
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  }
}
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "new-alert-notification",
  "name": "new alert notification",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": false,
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2018-04-23T14:44:09+02:00",
  "updated": "2018-08-20T15:47:49+02:00"
}
```

## Update notification channel by uid

`PUT /api/alert-notifications/uid/:uid`

Updates an existing notification channel identified by uid.

**Example request**:

```http
PUT /api/alert-notifications/uid/cIBgcSjkk HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "uid": "new-alert-notification", // optional
  "name": "new alert notification",  //Required
  "type":  "email", //Required
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": true,
  "frequency": "15m",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  }
}
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "new-alert-notification",
  "name": "new alert notification",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": true,
  "frequency": "15m",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2017-01-01 12:34",
  "updated": "2017-01-01 12:34"
}
```

## Update notification channel by id

`PUT /api/alert-notifications/:id`

Updates an existing notification channel identified by id.

**Example request**:

```http
PUT /api/alert-notifications/1 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "new-alert-notification", // optional
  "name": "new alert notification",  //Required
  "type":  "email", //Required
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": true,
  "frequency": "15m",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  }
}
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": 1,
  "uid": "new-alert-notification",
  "name": "new alert notification",
  "type": "email",
  "isDefault": false,
  "sendReminder": true,
  "frequency": "15m",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  },
  "created": "2017-01-01 12:34",
  "updated": "2017-01-01 12:34"
}
```

## Delete alert notification by uid

`DELETE /api/alert-notifications/uid/:uid`

Deletes an existing notification channel identified by uid.

**Example request**:

```http
DELETE /api/alert-notifications/uid/team-a-email-notifier HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "message": "Notification deleted"
}
```

## Delete alert notification by id

`DELETE /api/alert-notifications/:id`

Deletes an existing notification channel identified by id.

**Example request**:

```http
DELETE /api/alert-notifications/1 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "message": "Notification deleted"
}
```

## Test notification channel

Sends a test notification message for the given notification channel type and settings.
You can find the full list of [supported notifiers](/alerting/notifications/#all-supported-notifier) at the alert notifiers page.

`POST /api/alert-notifications/test`

**Example request**:

```http
POST /api/alert-notifications/test HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
  "type":  "email",
  "settings": {
    "addresses": "dev@grafana.com"
  }
}
```

**Example response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "message": "Test notification sent"
}
```
