docs/sources/whatsnew/_index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - guides/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v2-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v2-5/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v2-6/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v2/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v3-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v3/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-2/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-3/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-4/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-5/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-6/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5-2/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5-3/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5-4/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-0/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-2/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-3/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-4/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-5/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-6/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-7/
  - whats-new-in-v2-0/
  - whats-new-in-v2-1/
  - whats-new-in-v2-5/
  - whats-new-in-v2-6/
  - whats-new-in-v3-0/
  - whats-new-in-v3-1/
  - whats-new-in-v4-0/
  - whats-new-in-v4-1/
  - whats-new-in-v4-2/
  - whats-new-in-v4-3/
  - whats-new-in-v4-4/
  - whats-new-in-v4-5/
  - whats-new-in-v4-6/
  - whats-new-in-v5-0/
  - whats-new-in-v5-1/
  - whats-new-in-v5-2/
  - whats-new-in-v5-3/
  - whats-new-in-v5-4/
  - whats-new-in-v6-0/
  - whats-new-in-v6-1/
  - whats-new-in-v6-2/
  - whats-new-in-v6-3/
  - whats-new-in-v6-4/
  - whats-new-in-v6-5/
  - whats-new-in-v6-6/
  - whats-new-in-v6-7/
  - release-notes/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-8/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-0-beta3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-13/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-11/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-10/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-9/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-11/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-10/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-11/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-8/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-0-beta3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-0-beta3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-15/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-13/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-12/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-11/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-10/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-9/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-8/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-10/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-0/
description: Learn about new and updated features in Grafana.
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: What's new
title: What's new in Grafana
weight: 1
---

# What's new in Grafana

For release highlights, deprecations, and breaking changes in self-managed Grafana releases, refer to these "What's new" pages for each version.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
For Grafana versions prior to v9.2, additional information might also be available in the archived release notes. To access archived release notes, use the documentation for the minor version you want to see.

For example, to view the release notes for Grafana v8.5.13, go to https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v8.5/release-notes/.
{{< /admonition >}}

For a complete list of every change, with links to pull requests and related issues when available, see the [Changelog](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Grafana 12

- [What's new in 12.2](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v12-2)
- [What's new in 12.1](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v12-1)
- [What's new in 12.0](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v12-0)

## Grafana 11

- [What's new in 11.6](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-6)
- [What's new in 11.5](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-5/)
- [What's new in 11.4](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-4/)
- [What's new in 11.3](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-3/)
- [What's new in 11.2](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-2/)
- [What's new in 11.1](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-1/)
- [What's new in 11.0](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-0/)

## Grafana 10

- [What's new in 10.4](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10-4/)
- [What's new in 10.3](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10-3/)
- [What's new in 10.2](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10-2/)
- [What's new in 10.1](whats-new-in-v10-1/)
- [What's new in 10.0](whats-new-in-v10-0/)

## Grafana 9

- [What's new in 9.5](whats-new-in-v9-5/)
- [What's new in 9.4](whats-new-in-v9-4/)
- [What's new in 9.3](whats-new-in-v9-3/)
- [What's new in 9.2](whats-new-in-v9-2/)
- [What's new in 9.1](whats-new-in-v9-1/)
- [What's new in 9.0](whats-new-in-v9-0/)

## Grafana 8

- [What's new in 8.5](whats-new-in-v8-5/)
- [What's new in 8.4](whats-new-in-v8-4/)
- [What's new in 8.3](whats-new-in-v8-3/)
- [What's new in 8.2](whats-new-in-v8-2/)
- [What's new in 8.1](whats-new-in-v8-1/)
- [What's new in 8.0](whats-new-in-v8-0/)

Commit message:

Adding wording around grafana cloud and linking to whats new from grafana labs

docs/sources/whatsnew/_index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - guides/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v2-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v2-5/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v2-6/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v2/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v3-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v3/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-2/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-3/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-4/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-5/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4-6/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v4/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5-2/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5-3/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5-4/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v5/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-0/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-1/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-2/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-3/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-4/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-5/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-6/
  - guides/whats-new-in-v6-7/
  - whats-new-in-v2-0/
  - whats-new-in-v2-1/
  - whats-new-in-v2-5/
  - whats-new-in-v2-6/
  - whats-new-in-v3-0/
  - whats-new-in-v3-1/
  - whats-new-in-v4-0/
  - whats-new-in-v4-1/
  - whats-new-in-v4-2/
  - whats-new-in-v4-3/
  - whats-new-in-v4-4/
  - whats-new-in-v4-5/
  - whats-new-in-v4-6/
  - whats-new-in-v5-0/
  - whats-new-in-v5-1/
  - whats-new-in-v5-2/
  - whats-new-in-v5-3/
  - whats-new-in-v5-4/
  - whats-new-in-v6-0/
  - whats-new-in-v6-1/
  - whats-new-in-v6-2/
  - whats-new-in-v6-3/
  - whats-new-in-v6-4/
  - whats-new-in-v6-5/
  - whats-new-in-v6-6/
  - whats-new-in-v6-7/
  - release-notes/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-1-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-8/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-0-beta3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-9-0-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-13/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-11/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-10/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-9/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-5-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-11/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-10/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-4-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-11/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-3-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-2-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-8/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-0-beta3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-1-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-0-beta3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-8-0-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-15/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-13/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-12/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-11/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-10/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-9/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-8/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-0-beta2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-5-0-beta1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-5/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-4-0/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-10/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-7/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-6/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-4/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-3/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-2/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-1/
  - release-notes/release-notes-7-3-0/
description: Learn about new and updated features in Grafana.
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: What's new
title: What's new in Grafana
weight: 1
---

# What's new in Grafana

For release highlights, deprecations, and breaking changes in self-managed Grafana releases, refer to these "What's new" pages for each version.

For information on new Grafana Cloud highlights, refer to [What's new from Grafana Labs](https://grafana.com/whats-new).

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
For Grafana versions prior to v9.2, additional information might also be available in the archived release notes. To access archived release notes, use the documentation for the minor version you want to see.

For example, to view the release notes for Grafana v8.5.13, go to https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v8.5/release-notes/.
{{< /admonition >}}

For a complete list of every change, with links to pull requests and related issues when available, see the [Changelog](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Grafana 12

- [What's new in 12.2](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v12-2)
- [What's new in 12.1](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v12-1)
- [What's new in 12.0](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v12-0)

## Grafana 11

- [What's new in 11.6](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-6)
- [What's new in 11.5](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-5/)
- [What's new in 11.4](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-4/)
- [What's new in 11.3](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-3/)
- [What's new in 11.2](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-2/)
- [What's new in 11.1](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-1/)
- [What's new in 11.0](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v11-0/)

## Grafana 10

- [What's new in 10.4](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10-4/)
- [What's new in 10.3](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10-3/)
- [What's new in 10.2](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10-2/)
- [What's new in 10.1](whats-new-in-v10-1/)
- [What's new in 10.0](whats-new-in-v10-0/)

## Grafana 9

- [What's new in 9.5](whats-new-in-v9-5/)
- [What's new in 9.4](whats-new-in-v9-4/)
- [What's new in 9.3](whats-new-in-v9-3/)
- [What's new in 9.2](whats-new-in-v9-2/)
- [What's new in 9.1](whats-new-in-v9-1/)
- [What's new in 9.0](whats-new-in-v9-0/)

## Grafana 8

- [What's new in 8.5](whats-new-in-v8-5/)
- [What's new in 8.4](whats-new-in-v8-4/)
- [What's new in 8.3](whats-new-in-v8-3/)
- [What's new in 8.2](whats-new-in-v8-2/)
- [What's new in 8.1](whats-new-in-v8-1/)
- [What's new in 8.0](whats-new-in-v8-0/)
