docs/sources/dashboards/dashboard-public/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/dashboard-manage/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/features/dashboard/dashboards/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/dashboard-public/
title: Public dashboards
weight: 8
---

## Public dashboards

> **Note:** This is an opt-in alpha feature.

> **Caution:** Making your dashboard public could result in a large number of queries to the datasources used by your dashboard.
> This can be mitigated by utilizing the enterprise [caching](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/query-caching/) and/or rate limiting features.

Public dashboards allow you to share your Grafana dashboard with anyone. This is useful when you want to expose your
dashboard to the world.

#### Security implications of making your dashboard public

- Anyone with the URL can access the dashboard.
- Public dashboards are read-only.
- Arbitrary queries **cannot** be run against your datasources through public dashboards. Public dashboards can only execute the
  queries stored on the original dashboard.

#### Enable the feature

Add the `publicDashboards` feature toggle to your `custom.ini` file.

```
[feature_toggles]
publicDashboards = true
```

> **Note:** For Grafana Cloud, you will need to contact support to have the feature enabled.

#### Make a dashboard public

- Click on the sharing icon to the right of the dashboard title.
- Click on the Public Dashboard tab.
- Acknowledge the implications of making the dashboard public by checking all the checkboxes.
- Turn on the Enabled toggle.
- Click `Save Sharing Configuration` to make the dashboard public and make your link live.
- Copy the public dashboard link if you'd like to share it. You can always come back later for it.

#### Revoke access

- Click on the sharing icon to the right of the dashboard title.
- Click on the Public Dashboard tab.
- Turn off the Enabled toggle.
- Click `Save Sharing Configuration` to save your changes.
- Anyone with the link will not be able to access the dashboard publicly anymore.

#### Supported Datasources

Public dashboards _should_ work with any datasource that has the properties `backend` and `alerting` both set to true in it's `package.json`. However, this cannot always be
guaranteed since plugin developers can override this functionality. Below are the datasources that are confirmed to be working with public dashboards, and the ones that should work (but have not been confirmed compatible).

Confirmed:

- Altinity plugin for ClickHouse
- ClickHouse
- Elasticsearch
- Graphite
- Infinity
- InfluxDB
- Loki
- Microsoft SQL Server
- MongoDB
- MySQL
- OpenTSDB
- Oracle Database
- PostgreSQL
- Prometheus
- Redis
- SQLite

Unconfirmed:

- AWS IoT SiteWise
- Amazon Athena
- Amazon Redshift
- Amazon Timestream
- Apache Cassandra
- AppDynamics
- Azure Data Explorer Datasource
- Azure Monitor
- CSV
- CloudWatch
- DB2 Datasource
- Databricks
- Datadog
- Dataset
- Druid
- Dynatrace
- GitHub
- Google BigQuery
- Grafana for YNAB
- Honeycomb
- Jira
- Mock
- Neo4j Datasource
- New Relic
- OPC UA (Unified Architecture)
- Open Distro for Elasticsearch
- OpenSearch
- Orbit
- SAP HANA®
- Salesforce
- Sentry
- ServiceNow
- Snowflake
- Splunk
- Splunk Infrastructure Monitoring
- Sqlyze Datasource
- TDengine
- Vertica
- Wavefront
- X-Ray
- kdb+
- simple grpc datasource

#### Limitations

- Panels that use frontend datasources will fail to fetch data.
- Template variables are currently not supported, but are planned to be in the future.
- The time range is permanently set to the default time range on the dashboard. If you update the default time range for a dashboard, it will be reflected in the public dashboard.
- Exemplars will be omitted from the panel.
- Only annotations that query the `-- Grafana --` datasource are supported.
- Organization annotations are not supported.
- Grafana Live and real-time event streams are not supported.
- Library panels are currently not supported, but are planned to be in the future.
- Datasources using Reverse Proxy functionality are not supported.

We are excited to share this enhancement with you and we’d love your feedback! Please check out the [Github](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/discussions/49253) discussion and join the conversation.

Commit message:

Asks for feedback on pubdash github discussion if unconfirmed datasource is found to be working

docs/sources/dashboards/dashboard-public/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/dashboard-manage/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/features/dashboard/dashboards/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/dashboard-public/
title: Public dashboards
weight: 8
---

## Public dashboards

> **Note:** This is an opt-in alpha feature.

> **Caution:** Making your dashboard public could result in a large number of queries to the datasources used by your dashboard.
> This can be mitigated by utilizing the enterprise [caching](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/query-caching/) and/or rate limiting features.

Public dashboards allow you to share your Grafana dashboard with anyone. This is useful when you want to expose your
dashboard to the world.

#### Security implications of making your dashboard public

- Anyone with the URL can access the dashboard.
- Public dashboards are read-only.
- Arbitrary queries **cannot** be run against your datasources through public dashboards. Public dashboards can only execute the
  queries stored on the original dashboard.

#### Enable the feature

Add the `publicDashboards` feature toggle to your `custom.ini` file.

```
[feature_toggles]
publicDashboards = true
```

> **Note:** For Grafana Cloud, you will need to contact support to have the feature enabled.

#### Make a dashboard public

- Click on the sharing icon to the right of the dashboard title.
- Click on the Public Dashboard tab.
- Acknowledge the implications of making the dashboard public by checking all the checkboxes.
- Turn on the Enabled toggle.
- Click `Save Sharing Configuration` to make the dashboard public and make your link live.
- Copy the public dashboard link if you'd like to share it. You can always come back later for it.

#### Revoke access

- Click on the sharing icon to the right of the dashboard title.
- Click on the Public Dashboard tab.
- Turn off the Enabled toggle.
- Click `Save Sharing Configuration` to save your changes.
- Anyone with the link will not be able to access the dashboard publicly anymore.

#### Supported Datasources

Public dashboards _should_ work with any datasource that has the properties `backend` and `alerting` both set to true in it's `package.json`. However, this cannot always be
guaranteed since plugin developers can override this functionality. Below are the datasources that are confirmed to be working with public dashboards, and the ones that should work (but have not been confirmed compatible).

##### Confirmed:

- Altinity plugin for ClickHouse
- ClickHouse
- Elasticsearch
- Graphite
- Infinity
- InfluxDB
- Loki
- Microsoft SQL Server
- MongoDB
- MySQL
- OpenTSDB
- Oracle Database
- PostgreSQL
- Prometheus
- Redis
- SQLite

##### Unconfirmed:

> **Note:** If you've confirmed one of these datasources work with public dashboards, let us know in our [Github discussion](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/discussions/49253) and we'll mark it as confirmed!

- AWS IoT SiteWise
- Amazon Athena
- Amazon Redshift
- Amazon Timestream
- Apache Cassandra
- AppDynamics
- Azure Data Explorer Datasource
- Azure Monitor
- CSV
- CloudWatch
- DB2 Datasource
- Databricks
- Datadog
- Dataset
- Druid
- Dynatrace
- GitHub
- Google BigQuery
- Grafana for YNAB
- Honeycomb
- Jira
- Mock
- Neo4j Datasource
- New Relic
- OPC UA (Unified Architecture)
- Open Distro for Elasticsearch
- OpenSearch
- Orbit
- SAP HANA®
- Salesforce
- Sentry
- ServiceNow
- Snowflake
- Splunk
- Splunk Infrastructure Monitoring
- Sqlyze Datasource
- TDengine
- Vertica
- Wavefront
- X-Ray
- kdb+
- simple grpc datasource

#### Limitations

- Panels that use frontend datasources will fail to fetch data.
- Template variables are currently not supported, but are planned to be in the future.
- The time range is permanently set to the default time range on the dashboard. If you update the default time range for a dashboard, it will be reflected in the public dashboard.
- Exemplars will be omitted from the panel.
- Only annotations that query the `-- Grafana --` datasource are supported.
- Organization annotations are not supported.
- Grafana Live and real-time event streams are not supported.
- Library panels are currently not supported, but are planned to be in the future.
- Datasources using Reverse Proxy functionality are not supported.

We are excited to share this enhancement with you and we’d love your feedback! Please check out the [Github](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/discussions/49253) discussion and join the conversation.
