docs/sources/panels-visualizations/panel-overview/index.md, before:

---
keywords:
  - transform
  - query
  - panel
  - dashboard
  - rows
  - dynamic
  - add
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Panel overview
title: Panel overview
description: Learn about the features of the panel
weight: 15
---

# Panel overview

A Grafana panel is a visual representation of data composed of a [query][] and a [visualization][]. Within panels, you can apply [transformations][], which process the results of a query before they're passed on for visualization. You can also further customize a panel by formatting data and configuring visualization options.

Each panel has a query editor specific to the data source selected in the panel. The query editor allows you to build a query that returns the data you want to visualize.

Panels offer a wide variety of formatting and styling options, from applying colors based on field values to creating custom units. Each visualization also comes with options specific to it that give you further control over how your data is displayed. Panels can also be dragged, dropped, and resized to rearrange them on the dashboard.

To get started adding panels, ensure that you have configured a data source:

- For details about using data sources, refer to [Data sources][].
- For more information about managing data sources as an administrator, refer to [Data source management][].

  {{% admonition type="note" %}}
  [Data source management](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/data-source-management/) is only available in [Grafana Enterprise](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/introduction/grafana-enterprise/) and [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/).
  {{% /admonition %}}

## Panel feature overview

The panel has the following features:

<!-- The following image and descriptions highlight all panel features. -->

<!-- {{< figure src="tbd" width="700px" alt="An annotated image of a panel" >}} -->

- **Panel title** - You can create your own panel titles or have Grafana create them for you using [generative AI features][ai].
- **Links** - Add [panel links][] to other dashboards, panels, or external sites.
- **Panel menu** - In the [panel menu](#panel-menu), access actions such as **View**, **Edit**, **Inspect**, and **Remove**.
- **Tooltips** - View [tooltips][] to get more information about data points.
- **Legend** - Change series colors, y-axis and series visibility directly from the [legend][].

## Panel menu

To access the panel editor, hover over the top-right corner of any panel. Click the panel menu icon that appears and select **Edit**. The panel menu gives you access to the following actions:

- **View**: View the panel in full screen.
- **Edit**: Open the panel editor to edit panel and visualization options.
- **Share**: Share the panel as a link, embed, or library panel.
- **Explore**: Open the panel in **Explore**, where you can focus on your query.
- **Inspect**: Open the **Inspect** drawer, where you can review the panel data, stats, metadata, JSON, and query.
  - **Data**: Open the **Inspect** drawer in the **Data** tab.
  - **Query**: Open the **Inspect** drawer in the **Query** tab.
  - **Panel JSON**: Open the **Inspect** drawer in the **JSON** tab.
- **Extensions**: Access other actions provided by installed applications, such as declaring an incident. Note that this option doesn't appear unless you have app plugins installed which contribute an [extension](https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/ui-extensions/) to the panel menu.
- **More**: Access other panel actions.
  - **Duplicate**: Make a copy of the panel. Duplicated panels query data separately from the original panel. You can use the special `Dashboard` data source to [share the same query results across panels][share] instead.
  - **Copy**: Copy the panel to the clipboard.
  - **Create library panel**: Create a panel that can be imported into other dashboards.
  - **Create alert**: Open the alert rule configuration page in **Alerting**, where you can [create a Grafana-managed alert][create] based on the panel queries.
  - **Hide legend**: Hide the panel legend.
  - **Get help**: Send a snapshot or panel data to Grafana Labs Technical Support.
- **Remove**: Remove the panel from the dashboard.

## Keyboard shortcuts

Grafana has a number of keyboard shortcuts available specifically for panels. Press `?` on your keyboard to display all keyboard shortcuts available in your version of Grafana.

By hovering over a panel with the mouse you can use some shortcuts that will target that panel.

- `e`: Toggle panel edit view
- `v`: Toggle panel fullscreen view
- `ps`: Open Panel Share Modal
- `pd`: Duplicate Panel
- `pr`: Remove Panel
- `pl`: Toggle panel legend

## Panel configuration

To configure panels, refer to the following subtopics:

- [Configure panel options][]
- [Configure standard options][]
- [Configure a legend][legend]
- [Configure tooltips][tooltips]
- [Configure data links][]
- [Configure value mappings][]
- [Configure thresholds][]
- [Configure field overrides][]

{{% docs/reference %}}
[query]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data"
[query]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data"

[visualization]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/visualizations"
[visualization]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/visualizations"

[transformations]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/transform-data"
[transformations]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/transform-data"

[Data source management]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/data-source-management"
[Data source management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/data-source-management"

[Data sources]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/datasources"
[Data sources]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/datasources"

[ai]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/dashboards/manage-dashboards#set-up-generative-ai-features-for-dashboards"
[ai]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/dashboards/manage-dashboards#set-up-generative-ai-features-for-dashboards"

[panel links]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/dashboards/build-dashboards/manage-dashboard-links#panel-links"
[panel links]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/dashboards/build-dashboards/manage-dashboard-links#panel-links"

[tooltips]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-tooltips"
[tooltips]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-tooltips"

[legend]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-legend"
[legend]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-legend"

[share]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/share-query"
[share]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/share-query"

[create]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/alerting/alerting-rules/create-grafana-managed-rule#create-alerts-from-panels"
[create]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting/alerting-rules/create-grafana-managed-rule#create-alerts-from-panels"

[Configure panel options]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-panel-options"
[Configure panel options]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-panel-options"

[Configure standard options]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-standard-options"
[Configure standard options]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-standard-options"

[Configure data links]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-data-links"
[Configure data links]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-data-links"

[Configure value mappings]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-value-mappings"
[Configure value mappings]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-value-mappings"

[Configure thresholds]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-thresholds"
[Configure thresholds]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-thresholds"

[Configure field overrides]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-overrides"
[Configure field overrides]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-overrides"
{{% /docs/reference %}}

Commit message:

Added add panel section to overview and removed section from editor

docs/sources/panels-visualizations/panel-overview/index.md, after:

---
keywords:
  - transform
  - query
  - panel
  - dashboard
  - rows
  - dynamic
  - add
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Panel overview
title: Panel overview
description: Learn about the features of the panel
weight: 15
---

# Panel overview

A Grafana panel is a visual representation of data composed of a [query][] and a [visualization][]. Within panels, you can apply [transformations][], which process the results of a query before they're passed on for visualization. You can also further customize a panel by formatting data and configuring visualization options.

Each panel has a query editor specific to the data source selected in the panel. The query editor allows you to build a query that returns the data you want to visualize.

Panels offer a wide variety of formatting and styling options, from applying colors based on field values to creating custom units. Each visualization also comes with options specific to it that give you further control over how your data is displayed. Panels can also be dragged, dropped, and resized to rearrange them on the dashboard.

To get started adding panels, ensure that you have configured a data source:

- For details about using data sources, refer to [Data sources][].
- For more information about managing data sources as an administrator, refer to [Data source management][].

  {{% admonition type="note" %}}
  [Data source management](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/data-source-management/) is only available in [Grafana Enterprise](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/introduction/grafana-enterprise/) and [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/).
  {{% /admonition %}}

## Panel feature overview

The panel has the following features:

<!-- The following image and descriptions highlight all panel features. -->

<!-- {{< figure src="tbd" width="700px" alt="An annotated image of a panel" >}} -->

- **Panel title** - You can create your own panel titles or have Grafana create them for you using [generative AI features][ai].
- **Links** - Add [panel links][] to other dashboards, panels, or external sites.
- **Panel menu** - In the [panel menu](#panel-menu), access actions such as **View**, **Edit**, **Inspect**, and **Remove**.
- **Tooltips** - View [tooltips][] to get more information about data points.
- **Legend** - Change series colors, y-axis and series visibility directly from the [legend][].

## Panel menu

To access the panel editor, hover over the top-right corner of any panel. Click the panel menu icon that appears and select **Edit**. The panel menu gives you access to the following actions:

- **View**: View the panel in full screen.
- **Edit**: Open the panel editor to edit panel and visualization options.
- **Share**: Share the panel as a link, embed, or library panel.
- **Explore**: Open the panel in **Explore**, where you can focus on your query.
- **Inspect**: Open the **Inspect** drawer, where you can review the panel data, stats, metadata, JSON, and query.
  - **Data**: Open the **Inspect** drawer in the **Data** tab.
  - **Query**: Open the **Inspect** drawer in the **Query** tab.
  - **Panel JSON**: Open the **Inspect** drawer in the **JSON** tab.
- **Extensions**: Access other actions provided by installed applications, such as declaring an incident. Note that this option doesn't appear unless you have app plugins installed which contribute an [extension](https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/ui-extensions/) to the panel menu.
- **More**: Access other panel actions.
  - **Duplicate**: Make a copy of the panel. Duplicated panels query data separately from the original panel. You can use the special `Dashboard` data source to [share the same query results across panels][share] instead.
  - **Copy**: Copy the panel to the clipboard.
  - **Create library panel**: Create a panel that can be imported into other dashboards.
  - **Create alert**: Open the alert rule configuration page in **Alerting**, where you can [create a Grafana-managed alert][create] based on the panel queries.
  - **Hide legend**: Hide the panel legend.
  - **Get help**: Send a snapshot or panel data to Grafana Labs Technical Support.
- **Remove**: Remove the panel from the dashboard.

## Keyboard shortcuts

Grafana has a number of keyboard shortcuts available specifically for panels. Press `?` on your keyboard to display all keyboard shortcuts available in your version of Grafana.

By hovering over a panel with the mouse you can use some shortcuts that will target that panel.

- `e`: Toggle panel edit view
- `v`: Toggle panel fullscreen view
- `ps`: Open Panel Share Modal
- `pd`: Duplicate Panel
- `pr`: Remove Panel
- `pl`: Toggle panel legend

## Add a panel

To add a panel in a new dashboard click **+ Add visualization** in the middle of the dashboard:

![Empty dashboard state](/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/empty-dashboard-10.2.png)

To add a panel to an existing dashboard, click **Add** in the dashboard header and select **Visualization** in the drop-down:

![Add dropdown](/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/screenshot-add-dropdown-10.0.png)

## Panel configuration

To configure panels, refer to the following subtopics:

- [Configure panel options][]
- [Configure standard options][]
- [Configure a legend][legend]
- [Configure tooltips][tooltips]
- [Configure data links][]
- [Configure value mappings][]
- [Configure thresholds][]
- [Configure field overrides][]

{{% docs/reference %}}
[query]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data"
[query]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data"

[visualization]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/visualizations"
[visualization]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/visualizations"

[transformations]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/transform-data"
[transformations]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/transform-data"

[Data source management]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/data-source-management"
[Data source management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/data-source-management"

[Data sources]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/datasources"
[Data sources]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/datasources"

[ai]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/dashboards/manage-dashboards#set-up-generative-ai-features-for-dashboards"
[ai]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/dashboards/manage-dashboards#set-up-generative-ai-features-for-dashboards"

[panel links]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/dashboards/build-dashboards/manage-dashboard-links#panel-links"
[panel links]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/dashboards/build-dashboards/manage-dashboard-links#panel-links"

[tooltips]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-tooltips"
[tooltips]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-tooltips"

[legend]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-legend"
[legend]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-legend"

[share]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/share-query"
[share]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/share-query"

[create]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/alerting/alerting-rules/create-grafana-managed-rule#create-alerts-from-panels"
[create]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting/alerting-rules/create-grafana-managed-rule#create-alerts-from-panels"

[Configure panel options]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-panel-options"
[Configure panel options]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-panel-options"

[Configure standard options]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-standard-options"
[Configure standard options]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-standard-options"

[Configure data links]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-data-links"
[Configure data links]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-data-links"

[Configure value mappings]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-value-mappings"
[Configure value mappings]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-value-mappings"

[Configure thresholds]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-thresholds"
[Configure thresholds]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-thresholds"

[Configure field overrides]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-overrides"
[Configure field overrides]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/configure-overrides"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
