docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/histogram/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - ../../features/panels/histogram/
  - ../../panels/visualizations/histogram/
  - ../../visualizations/histogram/
description: Configure options for Grafana's histogram visualization
keywords:
  - grafana
  - docs
  - bar chart
  - panel
  - barchart
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Histogram
weight: 100
---

# Histogram

Histograms calculate the distribution of values and present them as a bar chart. The Y-axis and the height of each bar represent the count of values that fall into each bracket while the X-axis represents the value range.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/histogram-panel/histogram-example-v8-0.png" max-width="625px" caption="Bar chart example" >}}

## Supported data formats

Histograms support time series and any table results with one or more numerical fields.

## Display options

Use the following options to refine your visualization.

### Bucket size

The size of the buckets. Leave this empty for automatic bucket sizing (~10% of the full range).

### Bucket offset

If the first bucket should not start at zero. A non-zero offset has the effect of shifting the aggregation window. For example, 5-sized buckets that are 0-5, 5-10, 10-15 with a default 0 offset would become 2-7, 7-12, 12-17 with an offset of 2; offsets of 0, 5, or 10, in this case, would effectively do nothing. Typically, this option would be used with an explicitly defined bucket size rather than automatic. For this setting to affect, the offset amount should be greater than 0 and less than the bucket size; values outside this range will have the same effect as values within this range.

### Combine series

This will merge all series and fields into a combined histogram.

### Line width

Controls line width of the bars.

### Fill opacity

Controls the fill opacity bars.

### Gradient mode

Set the mode of the gradient fill. Fill gradient is based on the line color. To change the color, use the standard [color scheme][] field option.

Gradient display is influenced by the **Fill opacity** setting.

#### None

No gradient fill. This is the default setting.

#### Opacity

Transparency of the gradient is calculated based on the values on the Y-axis. The opacity of the fill is increasing with the values on the Y-axis.

#### Hue

Gradient color is generated based on the hue of the line color.

{{< docs/shared lookup="visualizations/legend-mode.md" source="grafana" version="<GRAFANA VERSION>" >}}

### Legend calculations

Choose a [standard calculations][] to show in the legend. You can select more than one.

{{% docs/reference %}}
[color scheme]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-standard-options#color-scheme"
[color scheme]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-standard-options#color-scheme"

[standard calculations]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/calculation-types"
[standard calculations]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/calculation-types"
{{% /docs/reference %}}

Commit message:

docs: update histogram visualization docs

docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/histogram/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - ../../features/panels/histogram/
  - ../../panels/visualizations/histogram/
  - ../../visualizations/histogram/
description: Configure options for Grafana's histogram visualization
keywords:
  - grafana
  - docs
  - bar chart
  - panel
  - barchart
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
title: Histogram
weight: 100
---

# Histogram

Histograms calculate the distribution of values and present them as a bar chart. The Y-axis and the height of each bar represent the count of values that fall into each bracket, while the X-axis represents the value range.

For example, if you want to understand the distribution of people's heights, you can use a histogram visualization to identify patterns or insights in the data distribution.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/histogram-panel/histogram-example-v8-0.png" max-width="625px" alt="A histogram visualization showing the distribution of people's heights" >}}

You can use a histogram visualization if you need to:

- Visualize and analyze data distributions over a specific time range to see how frequently certain values occur.
- Identify any outliers in your data distribution.
- Provide statistical analysis to help with decision-making 

## Configure a histogram visualization

<!-- video TBA here -->

## Supported data formats

Histograms support time series and any table results with one or more numerical fields.

### Examples

## Histogram options

Use the following options to refine your histogram visualization.

### Bucket size

The size of the buckets. Leave this empty for automatic bucket sizing (~10% of the full range).

### Bucket offset

If the first bucket should not start at zero. A non-zero offset has the effect of shifting the aggregation window. For example, 5-sized buckets that are 0-5, 5-10, 10-15 with a default 0 offset would become 2-7, 7-12, 12-17 with an offset of 2; offsets of 0, 5, or 10, in this case, would effectively do nothing. Typically, this option would be used with an explicitly defined bucket size rather than automatic. For this setting to affect, the offset amount should be greater than 0 and less than the bucket size; values outside this range will have the same effect as values within this range.

### Combine series

This will merge all series and fields into a combined histogram.

### Line width

Controls line width of the bars.

### Fill opacity

Controls the fill opacity bars.

### Gradient mode

Set the mode of the gradient fill. Fill gradient is based on the line color. To change the color, use the standard [color scheme][] field option.

Gradient display is influenced by the **Fill opacity** setting.

#### None

No gradient fill. This is the default setting.

#### Opacity

Transparency of the gradient is calculated based on the values on the Y-axis. The opacity of the fill is increasing with the values on the Y-axis.

#### Hue

Gradient color is generated based on the hue of the line color.

{{< docs/shared lookup="visualizations/legend-mode.md" source="grafana" version="<GRAFANA VERSION>" >}}

### Legend calculations

Choose a [standard calculations][] to show in the legend. You can select more than one.

{{% docs/reference %}}
[color scheme]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-standard-options#color-scheme"
[color scheme]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/configure-standard-options#color-scheme"

[standard calculations]: "/docs/grafana/ -> /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/calculation-types"
[standard calculations]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/visualizations/panels-visualizations/query-transform-data/calculation-types"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
