docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/saml/configure-saml-org-mapping/_index.md, before:

---
description: Learn how to configure SAML authentication in Grafana's UI.
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
menuTitle: Configure Organisation mapping for SAML
title: Configure Organisation mapping for SAML
weight: 550
---

# Configure organization mapping for SAML

Organization mapping allows you to assign users to particular organization in Grafana depending on attribute value obtained from identity provider.

1. In configuration file, set [`assertion_attribute_org`](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/enterprise-configuration/#assertion_attribute_org) to the attribute name you store organization info in. This attribute can be an array if you want a user to be in multiple organizations.
1. Set [`org_mapping`](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/enterprise-configuration/#org_mapping) option to the comma-separated list of `Organization:OrgId` pairs to map organization from IdP to Grafana organization specified by ID. If you want users to have different roles in multiple organizations, you can set this option to a comma-separated list of `Organization:OrgId:Role` mappings.

For example, use following configuration to assign users from `Engineering` organization to the Grafana organization with ID `2` as Editor and users from `Sales` - to the org with ID `3` as Admin, based on `Org` assertion attribute value:

```ini
[auth.saml]
assertion_attribute_org = Org
org_mapping = Engineering:2:Editor, Sales:3:Admin
```

Starting from Grafana version 11.5, you can use the organization name instead of the organization ID in the `org_mapping` option. Ensure that the organization name you configure matches exactly with the organization name in Grafana, as it is case-sensitive. If the organization name is not found in Grafana, the mapping will be ignored. If the external organization or the organization name contains spaces, use the JSON syntax for the `org_mapping` option:

```ini
org_mapping = ["Org 1:2:Editor", "ExternalOrg:ACME Corp.:Admin"]
```

If one of the mappings contains a `:`, use the JSON syntax and escape the `:` with a backslash:

```ini
# Assign users from "External:Admin" to the organization with name "ACME Corp" as Admin
org_mapping = ["External\:Admin:ACME Corp:Admin"]
```

For example, to assign users from `Engineering` organization to the Grafana organization with name `ACME Corp` as Editor and users from `Sales` - to the org with id `3` as Admin, based on `Org` assertion attribute value:

```ini
[auth.saml]
assertion_attribute_org = Org
org_mapping = ["Engineering:ACME Corp:Editor", "Sales:3:Admin"]
```

You can specify multiple organizations both for the IdP and Grafana:

- `org_mapping = Engineering:2, Sales:2` to map users from `Engineering` and `Sales` to `2` in Grafana.
- `org_mapping = Engineering:2, Engineering:3` to assign `Engineering` to both `2` and `3` in Grafana.

You can use `*` as the SAML Organization if you want all your users to be in some Grafana organizations with a default role:

- `org_mapping = *:2:Editor` to map all users to the organization which ID is `2` in Grafana as Editors.

You can use `*` as the Grafana organization in the mapping if you want all users from a given SAML Organization to be added to all existing Grafana organizations.

- `org_mapping = Engineering:*` to map users from `Engineering` to all existing Grafana organizations.
- `org_mapping = Administration:*:Admin` to map users from `Administration` to all existing Grafana organizations as Admins.

Commit message:

Update Org Mapping limitations description

docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/saml/configure-saml-org-mapping/_index.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to configure SAML authentication in Grafana's UI.
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
menuTitle: Configure Organisation mapping for SAML
title: Configure Organisation mapping for SAML
weight: 550
---

# Configure organization mapping for SAML

Organization mapping allows you to assign users to particular organization in Grafana depending on attribute value obtained from identity provider.

1. In configuration file, set [`assertion_attribute_org`](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/enterprise-configuration/#assertion_attribute_org) to the attribute name you store organization info in. This attribute can be an array if you want a user to be in multiple organizations.
1. Set [`org_mapping`](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/enterprise-configuration/#org_mapping) option to the comma-separated list of `Organization:OrgId` pairs to map organization from IdP to Grafana organization specified by ID. If you want users to have different roles in multiple organizations, you can set this option to a comma-separated list of `Organization:OrgId:Role` mappings.

For example, use following configuration to assign users from `Engineering` organization to the Grafana organization with ID `2` as Editor and users from `Sales` - to the org with ID `3` as Admin, based on `Org` assertion attribute value:

```ini
[auth.saml]
assertion_attribute_org = Org
org_mapping = Engineering:2:Editor, Sales:3:Admin
```

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}
The `org_mapping` option stores mappings in the database as JSON. Size limits depend on your database. In MySQL before Grafana 12.3, the limit is 34,783 characters. From Grafana 12.3, the column uses `MEDIUMTEXT`, raising the MySQL limit to 16,777,215 bytes (~16 MB). If you need to split users into more granular control, we suggest using [Role and Team Sync](../configure-saml-team-role-mapping/) instead.
{{< /admonition >}}

Starting from Grafana version 11.5, you can use the organization name instead of the organization ID in the `org_mapping` option. Ensure that the organization name you configure matches exactly with the organization name in Grafana, as it is case-sensitive. If the organization name is not found in Grafana, the mapping will be ignored. If the external organization or the organization name contains spaces, use the JSON syntax for the `org_mapping` option:

```ini
org_mapping = ["Org 1:2:Editor", "ExternalOrg:ACME Corp.:Admin"]
```

If one of the mappings contains a `:`, use the JSON syntax and escape the `:` with a backslash:

```ini
# Assign users from "External:Admin" to the organization with name "ACME Corp" as Admin
org_mapping = ["External\:Admin:ACME Corp:Admin"]
```

For example, to assign users from `Engineering` organization to the Grafana organization with name `ACME Corp` as Editor and users from `Sales` - to the org with id `3` as Admin, based on `Org` assertion attribute value:

```ini
[auth.saml]
assertion_attribute_org = Org
org_mapping = ["Engineering:ACME Corp:Editor", "Sales:3:Admin"]
```

You can specify multiple organizations both for the IdP and Grafana:

- `org_mapping = Engineering:2, Sales:2` to map users from `Engineering` and `Sales` to `2` in Grafana.
- `org_mapping = Engineering:2, Engineering:3` to assign `Engineering` to both `2` and `3` in Grafana.

You can use `*` as the SAML Organization if you want all your users to be in some Grafana organizations with a default role:

- `org_mapping = *:2:Editor` to map all users to the organization which ID is `2` in Grafana as Editors.

You can use `*` as the Grafana organization in the mapping if you want all users from a given SAML Organization to be added to all existing Grafana organizations.

- `org_mapping = Engineering:*` to map users from `Engineering` to all existing Grafana organizations.
- `org_mapping = Administration:*:Admin` to map users from `Administration` to all existing Grafana organizations as Admins.
