docs/sources/shared/visualizations/panel-filtering.md, before:

---
title: Panel filtering
---

<!-- use heading: Panel filtering with ad hoc filters -->

<!-- vale Grafana.WordList = NO -->
<!-- vale Grafana.Spelling = NO -->

In table and bar chart visualizations, you can apply ad hoc filters from the visualization with one click.
To quickly ad hoc filter variables, follow these steps:

1. Hover your cursor over the table cell with the value you want to filter for to display the filter icons. In this example, the cell value is `ConfigMap Updated`, which is in the `alertname` column:

   {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/screenshot-adhoc-filter-icon-v12.2.png" max-width="550px" alt="Table and bar chart with ad hoc filter icon displayed on a table cell" >}}

   In bar chart visualizations, hover and click the bar to display the filter option:

   {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/screenshot-adhoc-filter-icon-bar-v12.2.png" max-width="300px" alt="The ad hoc filter icon option in a bar chart tooltip">}}

1. Click the add filter icon.

   The variable pair `alertname = ConfigMap Updated` is added to the ad hoc filter and all panels using the same data source that include that variable value are filtered by that value:

   {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/screenshot-adhoc-filter-applied-v12.2.png" max-width="550px" alt="Table and bar chart, filtered" >}}

If one of the panels in the dashboard using that data source doesn't include that variable value, the panel won't return any data. In this example, the variable pair `_name_ = ALERTS` has been added to the ad hoc filter so the bar chart doesn't return any results:

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/screenshot-adhoc-filter-no-data-v12.2.png" max-width="650px" alt="Table, filtered and bar chart returning no results" >}}

Note that in bar chart 

<!-- vale Grafana.Spelling = YES -->
<!-- vale Grafana.WordList = YES -->

Commit message:

Added content for filtering using the Dashboard data source

docs/sources/shared/visualizations/panel-filtering.md, after:

---
title: Panel filtering
---

<!-- use heading: Panel filtering with ad hoc filters -->

<!-- vale Grafana.WordList = NO -->
<!-- vale Grafana.Spelling = NO -->

In table and bar chart visualizations, you can apply ad hoc filters from the visualization with one click.
To quickly ad hoc filter variables, follow these steps:

1. Hover your cursor over the table cell with the value you want to filter for to display the filter icons. In this example, the cell value is `ConfigMap Updated`, which is in the `alertname` column:

   {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/screenshot-adhoc-filter-icon-v12.2.png" max-width="550px" alt="Table and bar chart with ad hoc filter icon displayed on a table cell" >}}

   In bar chart visualizations, hover and click the bar to display the filter option:

   {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/screenshot-adhoc-filter-icon-bar-v12.2.png" max-width="300px" alt="The ad hoc filter icon option in a bar chart tooltip">}}

1. Click the add filter icon.

   The variable pair `alertname = ConfigMap Updated` is added to the ad hoc filter and all panels using the same data source that include that variable value are filtered by that value:

   {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/screenshot-adhoc-filter-applied-v12.2.png" max-width="550px" alt="Table and bar chart, filtered" >}}

If one of the panels in the dashboard using that data source doesn't include that variable value, the panel won't return any data. In this example, the variable pair `_name_ = ALERTS` has been added to the ad hoc filter so the bar chart doesn't return any results:

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/screenshot-adhoc-filter-no-data-v12.2.png" max-width="650px" alt="Table, filtered and bar chart returning no results" >}}

In cases where the data source you're using doesn't support ad hoc filtering, consider using the special Dashboard data source.
For more information, refer to [heading](#heading).

<!-- vale Grafana.Spelling = YES -->
<!-- vale Grafana.WordList = YES -->
