docs/sources/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/configure-rbac/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/access-control/configure-rbac/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/configure-rbac/
description: Learn how to configure RBAC.
menuTitle: Configure RBAC
title: Configure RBAC in Grafana
weight: 30
---

# Configure RBAC in Grafana

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud Advanced]({{< ref "/docs/grafana-cloud" >}}).

The table below describes all RBAC configuration options. Like any other Grafana configuration, you can apply these options as [environment variables]({{< relref "../../../../setup-grafana/configure-grafana/#configure-with-environment-variables" >}}).

| Setting                         | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Default |
| ------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `permission_cache`              | No       | Enable to use in memory cache for loading and evaluating users' permissions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `true`  |
| `permission_validation_enabled` | No       | Grafana enforces validation for permissions when a user creates or updates a role. The system checks the internal list of scopes and actions for each permission to determine they are valid. By default, if a scope or action is not recognized, Grafana logs a warning message. When set to `true`, Grafana returns an error. | `false` |

## Example RBAC configuration

```bash
[rbac]

permission_cache = true
```

Commit message:

RBAC: Add config option to reset basic roles on start up (#59598)
* RBAC: add config option to reset basic roles on start up

Co-authored-by: Jguer <joao.guerreiro@grafana.com>

* Update docs

Co-authored-by: Jguer <joao.guerreiro@grafana.com>

* Add to sample.ini as well

Co-authored-by: Jguer <joao.guerreiro@grafana.com>

Co-authored-by: Jguer <joao.guerreiro@grafana.com>

docs/sources/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/configure-rbac/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/access-control/configure-rbac/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/configure-rbac/
description: Learn how to configure RBAC.
menuTitle: Configure RBAC
title: Configure RBAC in Grafana
weight: 30
---

# Configure RBAC in Grafana

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud Advanced]({{< ref "/docs/grafana-cloud" >}}).

The table below describes all RBAC configuration options. Like any other Grafana configuration, you can apply these options as [environment variables]({{< relref "../../../../setup-grafana/configure-grafana/#configure-with-environment-variables" >}}).

| Setting                         | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Default |
| ------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `permission_cache`              | No       | Enable to use in memory cache for loading and evaluating users' permissions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `true`  |
| `permission_validation_enabled` | No       | Grafana enforces validation for permissions when a user creates or updates a role. The system checks the internal list of scopes and actions for each permission to determine they are valid. By default, if a scope or action is not recognized, Grafana logs a warning message. When set to `true`, Grafana returns an error. | `false` |
| `reset_basic_roles`             | No       | Reset Grafana's basic roles' (Viewer, Editor, Admin, Grafana Admin) permissions to their default. Warning, if this configuration option is left to `true` this will be done on every reboot.                                                                                                                                    | `true`  |

## Example RBAC configuration

```bash
[rbac]

permission_cache = true
```
