docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-rule.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-cortex-loki-managed-recording-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-rule/
description: Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alerting rule
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - guide
  - rules
  - create
title: Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alert rules
weight: 400
---

# Create a Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alerting rules

Grafana allows you to create alerting rules for an external Grafana Mimir or Loki instance that has ruler API enabled. For information on Grafana Alerting, see [About Grafana Alerting]({{< relref "../" >}}) which explains the various components of Grafana Alerting. We also recommend that you familiarize yourself with some of the [fundamental concepts]({{< relref "../fundamentals/" >}}) of Grafana Alerting.

## Before you begin

- Verify that you have write permission to the Prometheus or Loki data source. Otherwise, you will not be able to create or update Grafana Mimir managed alerting rules.

- For Grafana Mimir and Loki data sources, enable the ruler API by configuring their respective services.

  - **Loki** - The `local` rule storage type, default for the Loki data source, supports only viewing of rules. To edit rules, configure one of the other rule storage types.

  - **Grafana Mimir** - use the `/prometheus` prefix. The Prometheus data source supports both Grafana Mimir and Prometheus, and Grafana expects that both the [Query API](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/reference-http-api/#querier--query-frontend) and [Ruler API](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/reference-http-api/#ruler) are under the same URL. You cannot provide a separate URL for the Ruler API.

Watch this video to learn more about how to create a Mimir managed alert rule: {{< vimeo 720001865 >}}

> **Note:** If you do not want to manage alerting rules for a particular Loki or Prometheus data source, go to its settings and clear the **Manage alerts via Alerting UI** checkbox.

## Add a Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alerting rule

1. In the Grafana menu, click the **Alerting** (bell) icon to open the Alerting page listing existing alerts.
1. Click **New alert rule**. The new alerting rule page opens where the Grafana managed alerts option is selected by default.
1. In Step 1, add the rule name.
   - In **Rule name**, add a descriptive name. This name is displayed in the alert rule list. It is also the `alertname` label for every alert instance that is created from this rule.
1. In Step 2, select **Mimir or Loki alert** option.
   - Next, select your Loki or Prometheus data source and add the query to evaluate.
   - Enter a PromQL or LogQL expression to query. The rule fires if the evaluation result has at least one series with a value that is greater than 0. An alert is created for each series.
1. In Step 3, specify the alert evaluation interval.
   - In the **For** text box, specify the duration for which the condition must be true before an alert fires. If you specify `5m`, the condition must be true for 5 minutes before the alert fires.
     > **Note:** Once a condition is met, the alert goes into the `Pending` state. If the condition remains active for the duration specified, the alert transitions to the `Firing` state, else it reverts to the `Normal` state.
1. In Step 4, add the namespace, rule group, as well as additional metadata associated with the rule.
   - From the **Namespace** drop-down, select an existing rule namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Namespaces can contain one or more rule groups and only have an organizational purpose. For more information, see [Grafana Mimir or Loki rule groups and namespaces]({{< relref "edit-mimir-loki-namespace-group/" >}}).
   - From the **Group** drop-down, select an existing group within the selected namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Newly created rules are appended to the end of the group. Rules within a group are run sequentially at a regular interval, with the same evaluation time.
   - Add a description and summary to customize alert messages. Use the guidelines in [Annotations and labels for alerting]({{< relref "../fundamentals/annotation-label/" >}}).
   - Add Runbook URL, panel, dashboard, and alert IDs.
   - Add custom labels.
1. Click **Save** to save the rule or **Save and exit** to save the rule and go back to the Alerting page.
1. Next, create a notification for the rule.

Commit message:

Docs: Add step for custom labels in alert form

docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-rule.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-cortex-loki-managed-recording-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-rule/
description: Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alerting rule
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - guide
  - rules
  - create
title: Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alert rules
weight: 400
---

# Create a Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alerting rules

Grafana allows you to create alerting rules for an external Grafana Mimir or Loki instance that has ruler API enabled. For information on Grafana Alerting, see [About Grafana Alerting]({{< relref "../" >}}) which explains the various components of Grafana Alerting. We also recommend that you familiarize yourself with some of the [fundamental concepts]({{< relref "../fundamentals/" >}}) of Grafana Alerting.

## Before you begin

- Verify that you have write permission to the Prometheus or Loki data source. Otherwise, you will not be able to create or update Grafana Mimir managed alerting rules.

- For Grafana Mimir and Loki data sources, enable the ruler API by configuring their respective services.

  - **Loki** - The `local` rule storage type, default for the Loki data source, supports only viewing of rules. To edit rules, configure one of the other rule storage types.

  - **Grafana Mimir** - use the `/prometheus` prefix. The Prometheus data source supports both Grafana Mimir and Prometheus, and Grafana expects that both the [Query API](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/reference-http-api/#querier--query-frontend) and [Ruler API](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/reference-http-api/#ruler) are under the same URL. You cannot provide a separate URL for the Ruler API.

Watch this video to learn more about how to create a Mimir managed alert rule: {{< vimeo 720001865 >}}

> **Note:** If you do not want to manage alerting rules for a particular Loki or Prometheus data source, go to its settings and clear the **Manage alerts via Alerting UI** checkbox.

## Add a Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alerting rule

1. In the Grafana menu, click the **Alerting** (bell) icon to open the Alerting page listing existing alerts.
1. Click **New alert rule**. The new alerting rule page opens where the Grafana managed alerts option is selected by default.
1. In Step 1, add the rule name.
   - In **Rule name**, add a descriptive name. This name is displayed in the alert rule list. It is also the `alertname` label for every alert instance that is created from this rule.
1. In Step 2, select **Mimir or Loki alert** option.
   - Next, select your Loki or Prometheus data source and add the query to evaluate.
   - Enter a PromQL or LogQL expression to query. The rule fires if the evaluation result has at least one series with a value that is greater than 0. An alert is created for each series.
1. In Step 3, specify the alert evaluation interval.
   - In the **For** text box, specify the duration for which the condition must be true before an alert fires. If you specify `5m`, the condition must be true for 5 minutes before the alert fires.
     > **Note:** Once a condition is met, the alert goes into the `Pending` state. If the condition remains active for the duration specified, the alert transitions to the `Firing` state, else it reverts to the `Normal` state.
1. In Step 4, add the namespace, rule group, as well as additional metadata associated with the rule.
   - From the **Namespace** drop-down, select an existing rule namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Namespaces can contain one or more rule groups and only have an organizational purpose. For more information, see [Grafana Mimir or Loki rule groups and namespaces]({{< relref "edit-mimir-loki-namespace-group/" >}}).
   - From the **Group** drop-down, select an existing group within the selected namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Newly created rules are appended to the end of the group. Rules within a group are run sequentially at a regular interval, with the same evaluation time.
   - Add a description and summary to customize alert messages. Use the guidelines in [Annotations and labels for alerting]({{< relref "../fundamentals/annotation-label/" >}}).
   - Add Runbook URL, panel, dashboard, and alert IDs.
1. In Step 5, add custom labels.
   - Add custom labels selecting existing key-value pairs from the drop down, or add new labels by entering the new key or value .
1. Click **Save** to save the rule or **Save and exit** to save the rule and go back to the Alerting page.
1. Next, create a notification for the rule.
