docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-cortex-loki-managed-recording-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule/
description: Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rule
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - guide
  - rules
  - recording rules
  - create
title: Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rules
weight: 400
---

# Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rules

You can create and manage recording rules for an external Grafana Mimir or Loki instance. Recording rules calculate frequently needed expressions or computationally expensive expressions in advance and save the result as a new set of time series. Querying this new time series is faster, especially for dashboards since they query the same expression every time the dashboards refresh.

## Before you begin

- Verify that you have write permission to the Prometheus or Loki data source. Otherwise, you will not be able to create or update Grafana Mimir managed alerting rules.

- For Grafana Mimir and Loki data sources, enable the ruler API by configuring their respective services.

  - **Loki** - The `local` rule storage type, default for the Loki data source, supports only viewing of rules. To edit rules, configure one of the other rule storage types.

  - **Grafana Mimir** - use the `/prometheus` prefix. The Prometheus data source supports both Grafana Mimir and Prometheus, and Grafana expects that both the [Query API](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/reference-http-api/#querier--query-frontend) and [Ruler API](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/reference-http-api/#ruler) are under the same URL. You cannot provide a separate URL for the Ruler API.

> **Note:** If you do not want to manage alerting rules for a particular Loki or Prometheus data source, go to its settings and clear the **Manage alerts via Alerting UI** checkbox.

## Add a Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rule

To create a Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rule

1. In the Grafana menu, click the **Alerting** (bell) icon to open the Alerting page listing existing alerts.
1. Click **New alert rule**. The new alerting rule page opens where the **Grafana managed alert** option is selected by default.
1. In Step 1, add the rule name.
   - In **Rule name**, add a descriptive name. This name is displayed in the alert rule list. It is also the `alertname` label for every alert instance that is created from this rule.
1. In Step 2, select **Mimir or Loki recording rule** option.
   - Select your Loki or Prometheus data source, add the query to evaluate, and then select the alert condition.
   - Enter a PromQL or LogQL expression. The rule fires if the evaluation result has at least one series with a value that is greater than 0. An alert is created for each series.
1. In Step 3, add the namespace, rule group, as well as additional metadata associated with the rule.
   - From the **Namespace** drop-down, select an existing rule namespace. Otherwise, click Add new and enter a name to create a new one. Namespaces can contain one or more rule groups and only have an organizational purpose. For more information, see [Grafana Mimir or Loki rule groups and namespaces]({{< relref "edit-mimir-loki-namespace-group/" >}}).
   - From the **Group** drop-down, select an existing group within the selected namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Newly created rules are appended to the end of the group. Rules within a group are run sequentially at a regular interval, with the same evaluation time.
   - Add a description and summary to customize alert messages. Use the guidelines in [Annotations and labels for alerting]({{< relref "../fundamentals/annotation-label/" >}}).
   - Add Runbook URL, panel, dashboard, and alert IDs.
   - Add custom labels.
1. Click **Save** to save the rule or **Save and exit** to save the rule and go back to the Alerting page.
1. Next, create a notification for the rule.

1. In the Grafana menu, click the **Alerting** (bell) icon to open the Alerting page listing existing alerts.
1. Click **New alert rule**.
1. In Step 1, add the rule name.
   - In **Rule name**, add a descriptive name. This name is displayed in the alert rule list. It is also the `alertname` label for every alert instance that is created from this rule.
1. In Step 2, add the type, and storage location.
   - From the **Rule type** drop-down, select **Mimir / Loki managed alert**.
   - From the **Select data source** drop-down, select an external Prometheus, an external Loki, or a Grafana Cloud data source.
   - From the **Namespace** drop-down, select an existing rule namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Namespaces can contain one or more rule groups and only have an organizational purpose.
   - From the **Group** drop-down, select an existing group within the selected namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Newly created rules are appended to the end of the group. Rules within a group are run sequentially at a regular interval, with the same evaluation time.
     {{< figure src="/static/img/docs/alerting/unified/rule-edit-mimir-alert-type-8-0.png" max-width="550px" caption="Alert details" >}}
1. In Step 3, add the query to evaluate.
   - Enter a PromQL or LogQL expression. The rule fires if the evaluation result has at least one series with a value that is greater than 0. An alert is created for each series.
     {{< figure src="/static/img/docs/alerting/unified/rule-edit-mimir-query-8-0.png" max-width="550px" caption="Alert details" >}}
1. In Step 4, add additional metadata associated with the rule.
   - Add a description and summary to customize alert messages. Use the guidelines in [Annotations and labels for alerting]({{< relref "../fundamentals/annotation-label/" >}}).
   - Add Runbook URL, panel, dashboard, and alert IDs.
   - Add custom labels.
1. Click **Save** to save the rule or **Save and exit** to save the rule and go back to the Alerting page.

Commit message:

Docs: Add step for custom labels in alert form

docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-cortex-loki-managed-recording-rule/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule/
description: Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rule
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - guide
  - rules
  - recording rules
  - create
title: Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rules
weight: 400
---

# Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rules

You can create and manage recording rules for an external Grafana Mimir or Loki instance. Recording rules calculate frequently needed expressions or computationally expensive expressions in advance and save the result as a new set of time series. Querying this new time series is faster, especially for dashboards since they query the same expression every time the dashboards refresh.

## Before you begin

- Verify that you have write permission to the Prometheus or Loki data source. Otherwise, you will not be able to create or update Grafana Mimir managed alerting rules.

- For Grafana Mimir and Loki data sources, enable the ruler API by configuring their respective services.

  - **Loki** - The `local` rule storage type, default for the Loki data source, supports only viewing of rules. To edit rules, configure one of the other rule storage types.

  - **Grafana Mimir** - use the `/prometheus` prefix. The Prometheus data source supports both Grafana Mimir and Prometheus, and Grafana expects that both the [Query API](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/reference-http-api/#querier--query-frontend) and [Ruler API](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/reference-http-api/#ruler) are under the same URL. You cannot provide a separate URL for the Ruler API.

> **Note:** If you do not want to manage alerting rules for a particular Loki or Prometheus data source, go to its settings and clear the **Manage alerts via Alerting UI** checkbox.

## Add a Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rule

To create a Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rule

1. In the Grafana menu, click the **Alerting** (bell) icon to open the Alerting page listing existing alerts.
1. Click **New alert rule**. The new alerting rule page opens where the **Grafana managed alert** option is selected by default.
1. In Step 1, add the rule name.
   - In **Rule name**, add a descriptive name. This name is displayed in the alert rule list. It is also the `alertname` label for every alert instance that is created from this rule.
1. In Step 2, select **Mimir or Loki recording rule** option.
   - Select your Loki or Prometheus data source, add the query to evaluate, and then select the alert condition.
   - Enter a PromQL or LogQL expression. The rule fires if the evaluation result has at least one series with a value that is greater than 0. An alert is created for each series.
1. In Step 3, add the namespace, rule group, as well as additional metadata associated with the rule.
   - From the **Namespace** drop-down, select an existing rule namespace. Otherwise, click Add new and enter a name to create a new one. Namespaces can contain one or more rule groups and only have an organizational purpose. For more information, see [Grafana Mimir or Loki rule groups and namespaces]({{< relref "edit-mimir-loki-namespace-group/" >}}).
   - From the **Group** drop-down, select an existing group within the selected namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Newly created rules are appended to the end of the group. Rules within a group are run sequentially at a regular interval, with the same evaluation time.
   - Add a description and summary to customize alert messages. Use the guidelines in [Annotations and labels for alerting]({{< relref "../fundamentals/annotation-label/" >}}).
   - Add Runbook URL, panel, dashboard, and alert IDs.
   - Add custom labels.
1. Click **Save** to save the rule or **Save and exit** to save the rule and go back to the Alerting page.
1. Next, create a notification for the rule.

1. In the Grafana menu, click the **Alerting** (bell) icon to open the Alerting page listing existing alerts.
1. Click **New alert rule**.
1. In Step 1, add the rule name.
   - In **Rule name**, add a descriptive name. This name is displayed in the alert rule list. It is also the `alertname` label for every alert instance that is created from this rule.
1. In Step 2, add the type, and storage location.
   - From the **Rule type** drop-down, select **Mimir / Loki managed alert**.
   - From the **Select data source** drop-down, select an external Prometheus, an external Loki, or a Grafana Cloud data source.
   - From the **Namespace** drop-down, select an existing rule namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Namespaces can contain one or more rule groups and only have an organizational purpose.
   - From the **Group** drop-down, select an existing group within the selected namespace. Otherwise, click **Add new** and enter a name to create a new one. Newly created rules are appended to the end of the group. Rules within a group are run sequentially at a regular interval, with the same evaluation time.
     {{< figure src="/static/img/docs/alerting/unified/rule-edit-mimir-alert-type-8-0.png" max-width="550px" caption="Alert details" >}}
1. In Step 3, add the query to evaluate.
   - Enter a PromQL or LogQL expression. The rule fires if the evaluation result has at least one series with a value that is greater than 0. An alert is created for each series.
     {{< figure src="/static/img/docs/alerting/unified/rule-edit-mimir-query-8-0.png" max-width="550px" caption="Alert details" >}}
1. In Step 4, add additional metadata associated with the rule.
   - Add a description and summary to customize alert messages. Use the guidelines in [Annotations and labels for alerting]({{< relref "../fundamentals/annotation-label/" >}}).
   - Add Runbook URL, panel, dashboard, and alert IDs.
1. In Step 5, add custom labels.
   - Add custom labels selecting existing key-value pairs from the drop down, or add new labels by entering the new key or value .
1. Click **Save** to save the rule or **Save and exit** to save the rule and go back to the Alerting page.
