docs/sources/upgrade-guide/upgrade-v10.1/index.md, before:

---
description: Guide for upgrading to Grafana v10.1
keywords:
  - grafana
  - configuration
  - documentation
  - upgrade
title: Upgrade to Grafana v10.1
menutitle: Upgrade to v10.1
weight: 1600
---

# Upgrade to Grafana v10.1

{{< docs/shared "upgrade/upgrade-common-tasks.md" >}}

## Technical notes

### OAuth role mapping enforcement

This change impacts `GitHub` OAuth, `Gitlab` OAuth, `Okta` OAuth and `Generic` OAuth.

Currently if no organization role mapping is found for a user when connecting via OAuth, Grafana doesn’t update the user’s organization role.

With Grafana 10.1, on every login, if the role_attribute_path property does not return a role, then the user is assigned the role specified by the auto_assign_org_role option or the default role for the organization, by default, Viewer.

To avoid overriding manually set roles, enable the skip_org_role_sync option in the Grafana configuration for your OAuth provider before upgrading to Grafana 10.1 and before users log in for the first time in Grafana 10.1.

Example for Generic OAuth2:

```ini
[auth.generic_oauth]
...
skip_org_role_sync = true
```

Commit message:

Docs: Update OAuth entry to match What's new (#73512)
* Aligned oauth entry with What's new version

* Fixed menuTitle spelling in front matter

(cherry picked from commit f10f1874e6ef41caacc67976b8b43ac0a8a97d32)

docs/sources/upgrade-guide/upgrade-v10.1/index.md, after:

---
description: Guide for upgrading to Grafana v10.1
keywords:
  - grafana
  - configuration
  - documentation
  - upgrade
title: Upgrade to Grafana v10.1
menuTitle: Upgrade to v10.1
weight: 1600
---

# Upgrade to Grafana v10.1

{{< docs/shared "upgrade/upgrade-common-tasks.md" >}}

## Technical notes

### OAuth role mapping enforcement

This change impacts `GitHub` OAuth, `Gitlab` OAuth, `Okta` OAuth, and `Generic` OAuth.

Previously, if no organization role mapping was found for a user when they connected using OAuth, Grafana didn't update the user’s organization role.

With Grafana 10.1, on every login, if the `role_attribute_path` property doesn't return a role, then the user is assigned the role specified by the `auto_assign_org_role` option or the default role for the organization, which is Viewer by default.

To avoid overriding manually set roles, enable the `skip_org_role_sync` option in the Grafana configuration for your OAuth provider before upgrading to Grafana 10.1 and before users log in for the first time on Grafana 10.1.

Example for Generic OAuth2:

```ini
[auth.generic_oauth]
...
skip_org_role_sync = true
```
